The Project Gutenberg eBook of A knight of the air
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: A knight of the air
        Or, The aerial rivals

Author: Henry Coxwell

Release date: November 9, 2024 [eBook #74709]

Language: English

Original publication: United Kingdom: Digby, Long & Co

Credits: Susan E., David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A KNIGHT OF THE AIR ***





A KNIGHT OF THE AIR




DIGBY’S POPULAR NOVEL SERIES

_Crown 8vo, handsome cloth, price 2s. 6d. per Vol. Each Book contains
about 320 pp., and is printed on superior paper from new type._

_Those marked * may be had in Picture Boards at 2s._


  =THE BEAUTIFUL SOUL.= By FLORENCE MARRYAT. Author of ‘A Fatal
    Silence,’ &c.                                     [_Just Published._

  =THE OTHER BOND.= By DORA RUSSELL. Author of ‘A Hidden Chain,’ &c.
                                                      [_Just Published._

  =A LIFE FOR A LOVE.= By L. T. MEADE. Author of ‘The Medicine Lady,’
    &c.                                               [_Just Published._

  =FALSE PRETENCES.= By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs PENDER CUDLIP). Author of ‘A
    Girl’s Folly,’ ‘A Lover of the Day,’ &c.          [_Just Published._

  =HER LOVING SLAVE.= By HUME NISBET. Author of ‘The Jolly Roger,’
    ‘Bail Up,’ &c. With Illustrations by the Author.  [_Just Published._

  =* DR JANET OF HARLEY STREET.= By ARABELLA KENEALY. Author of ‘Some
    Men are Such Gentlemen,’ ‘The Honourable Mrs Spoor.’
                                                     [_Seventh Edition._

  =THE MYSTERY OF CLEMENT DUNRAVEN.= By JEAN MIDDLEMASS. Author of ‘A
    Girl in a Thousand,’ ‘Hush Money,’ &c.             [_Third Edition._

  =* A HIDDEN CHAIN.= By DORA RUSSELL. Author of ‘The Other Bond,’
    ‘Footprints in the Snow,’ &c.                      [_Third Edition._

  =* THE JOLLY ROGER.= By HUME NISBET. Author of ‘Her Loving Slave’,
    ‘Bail Up,’ &c. With Illustrations by the Author.   [_Fifth Edition._


  _Other Works in the same Series in due course._

  DIGBY, LONG & CO., LONDON




[Illustration: “Just when the pilot and Bennet had commenced to wind
down the balloon, a report from a gun was heard.”--Page 156.]




  A KNIGHT OF THE AIR
  Or, the Aerial Rivals

  BY
  HENRY COXWELL
  AUTHOR OF ‘MY LIFE AND BALLOON EXPERIENCES’

  LONDON
  DIGBY, LONG & CO., PUBLISHERS
  18 BOUVERIE STREET, FLEET STREET, E.C.




ARABELLA KENEALY’S NOVELS


SOME MEN ARE SUCH GENTLEMEN

_Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s._ FIFTH EDITION.

_Academy_--‘We take up a book by Miss Arabella Kenealy confidently
expecting to be amused, and in her latest work we are not disappointed.
The story is so brightly written that our interest is never allowed
to flag. The heroine, Lois Clinton, is sweet and womanly.... The tale
is told with spirit and vivacity, and shows no little skill in its
descriptive passages.’

_Pall Mall Gazette_--‘A book to be read breathlessly from beginning to
end. It is decidedly original ... its vivid interest. The picture of
the girl is admirably drawn. The style is bright and easy.’

_Literary World_--‘A really good story, original, well written and
strong. A really excellent and engaging story. The materials are rare,
and, we must admit, ideal ... can be read with interest and enjoyment.’

_Daily Chronicle_--‘Miss Kenealy has original ideas, a nice faculty of
literary expression.... Her description of the old house where dwelt
her strange young heroine, is quite admirable.... There is a quaintness
and an air of romance about the whole story, which are very pleasant to
note and to remember.’

_Truth_--‘Its heroine is at once original and charming.’


DR JANET OF HARLEY STREET

_Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. Picture Boards, 2s._

_This Book ran through Six Editions in the Six Shilling form._

_Daily Chronicle_--‘It is a clever book, and well worth reading; it
can outstrip the ordinary novel by many knots per day (to pursue the
metaphor), and it may make one or two people think who are unaccustomed
to that exercise. Miss Kenealy has imagined an interesting character,
and realised her vividly.’

_Pall Mall Gazette_--‘In “Dr Janet of Harley Street,” Dr Arabella
Kenealy has shown that the art of writing lively fiction is not the
least of her many accomplishments. Moreover, she has achieved the
rare distinction of producing a novel which is didactic and not dull.
Miss Kenealy has a quick sense of humour, and a lively faculty of
observation, and her style is vivid and effective.’


THE HONOURABLE MRS SPOOR

_Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s._ FOURTH EDITION.

_Black and White_--‘Her latest novel has advanced her to the front rank
of lady novelists.’

_The Daily Chronicle_--‘A clever story. The most powerful piece of work
that Miss Kenealy has done.’

_The Pall Mall Gazette_--‘This powerful story ... brilliantly achieved.
Her style is, as always, graceful and easy, and her character sketches
are excellent and humorous.’


DIGBY, LONG & CO., Publishers, London.




  THIS STORY
  IS
  =Dedicated=
  BY PERMISSION
  TO
  SIR WILLIAM INGRAM, BART.
  WHO HAS ALWAYS
  EXHIBITED A DEEP INTEREST
  ON PRACTICAL AERONAUTICS




_CONTENTS_


                  CHAPTER I
                                        PAGE
  Shadowed,                                1

                  CHAPTER II

  An Accident,                             9

                 CHAPTER III

  Messrs Goodall Brothers,                20

                  CHAPTER IV

  An Appeal,                              30

                  CHAPTER V

  Scheming,                               40

                  CHAPTER VI

  Aeronautics,                            56

                 CHAPTER VII

  Finance and Finesse,                    70

                 CHAPTER VIII

  Mr Falcon on Flight,                    86

                  CHAPTER XI

  A Flighty Fiasco,                       96

                  CHAPTER X

  Captain Link’s Appearance,             106

                  CHAPTER XI

  Remarkable Events,                     120

                 CHAPTER XII

  Unmasked,                              136

                 CHAPTER XIII

  The Mysterious Shot,                   152

                 CHAPTER XIV

  Surprising Disclosures,                168

                  CHAPTER XV

  Wanted by Warner,                      181

                 CHAPTER XVI

  On the Track,                          194

                 CHAPTER XVII

  Alarming Incidents,                    208

                CHAPTER XVIII

  Waiting for News,                      222

                  CHAPTER IX

  Up Aloft,                              232

                  CHAPTER XX

  The Fight in the Fog,                  245

                 CHAPTER XXI

  Reconciliation and Retrospection,      261

                 CHAPTER XXII

  Tightening the Net,                    268

                CHAPTER XXIII

  Decoyed,                               278

                 CHAPTER XXIV

  Disappearance and Reappearance,        293

                 CHAPTER XXV

  Reunion and Happiness,                 301




A KNIGHT OF THE AIR




CHAPTER I

SHADOWED!


Mr Harry Goodall, a young, tall and well-set-up gentleman, was walking
impatiently to and fro on the south side of Trafalgar Square, as if
he were awaiting the arrival of someone who had agreed to meet him.
The fact was, he was in a hurry to get to Sydenham, where he was
about to try a scientific experiment, and was momentarily expecting
a cab conveying a model apparatus which he was going to test. While
he was waiting, his attention was drawn to two men who, in crossing
the road, were nearly run over, and who, as soon as they caught sight
of Goodall, nudged one another and whispered for a moment, and then
disappeared behind one of the lions. Almost immediately the cab Goodall
was expecting drew up with a long, coffin-shaped box on the top, and,
at the same moment, the two men emerged from their hiding-place, and
passed Goodall as he stepped into the cab. He noticed this action, and,
for some undefined reason, he merely instructed the coachman to drive
over Westminster Bridge. The cab bore him swiftly away, but “More haste
less speed,” for, as they went down the incline on the Surrey side, the
horse slipped and fell. A crowd gathered, and Goodall alighted. As he
did so, he noticed a hansom pass him, in which were the same two men he
had observed watching him in Trafalgar Square. Shortly afterwards, the
cab horse was got up on to his legs again and the journey to Sydenham
was proceeded with, after the coachman had received definite orders as
to his destination.

As he drove along, it occurred to Goodall that he must be the object
of these two men’s attention. The question was, were they detectives
who had mistaken him for someone else, or were they spies put on by
his uncle, who was, he knew, most averse to the hobby of his life,
which, it may be said at once, was ballooning? However, he dismissed
the matter from his mind as the cab drew up at the workmen’s entrance
to the Crystal Palace, where he deposited the box with the officials
and then drove on to the central entrance, where he exchanged
civilities with the general manager, and with whom he chatted for a
short time in the transept as to what he proposed doing in the way
of experiments, and so on. Passing into the building, and wending
his way through the groups of refreshment tables, although his mind
was full of his project, he could not help noticing a party of people
seated at one of the tables. It consisted of a young lady and two
gentleman, while another person, as if an attendant on one of them,
stood in the background. The lady was remarkably pretty, and one of
her companions was an aristocratic-looking old gentleman--a country
squire in appearance--but the other, whose face Mr Goodall had seen
before, gave him a rude, fixed stare, and, as Goodall drew nearer, he
recognised him as one of the two men who had passed him in the hansom,
whilst the man in the background was his companion. Thinking that this
third _rencontre_ was, perhaps, after all, merely a coincidence, Mr
Goodall passed on through the door of the tropical department, and soon
afterwards entered a square, glass-built room of large dimensions,
which is situated beneath the lofty North Tower, and which had been
placed at Mr Goodall’s disposal to facilitate a series of aeronautical
experiments, but not in a public capacity, demonstrating his own
ideas on aeronautics, and which aimed at rescuing ballooning from the
imputation that its pursuit, which had become valuable for military
purposes, must necessarily be attended with continual risk, and with
those frequent fatalities which have cast a slur on its more recent
practice.

In Mr Goodall’s laboratory, or workroom, as he preferred to call it,
was a smart young fellow named Trigger, who acted as his assistant,
whilst two lady-like women, Mrs Chain and her daughter, were giving the
finishing touches to a superb silk balloon, work with which Goodall had
entrusted them out of compassion, being aware that they were in bad
circumstances through having been swindled by a fraudulent financier,
who had embezzled funds of theirs given him to invest.

“Good morning, Mrs Chain,” said Mr Goodall. “Did you ever see a more
glorious day? And you, Miss Chain, you wish me success to-day, I hope?”

“Why, of course, Mr Goodall. I was just saying to Lucy”--with a nod
over to a young woman, Tom Trigger’s sweetheart,--“that you seem as
fortunate as the Queen with respect to weather.”

In addition to the silk balloon, at which they were working there were
model machines in the workroom, together with a great mass of tackle,
all appertaining to the practice of ballooning. The special contrivance
that was to undergo a trial that day was a cone-pointed aerostat of
thirteen feet in length, by four feet in central diameter, which Mr
Goodall had brought with him in the cab. The amateur’s idea was to use
it somewhat like a keel or centre-board boat of novel shape, which
was to be driven by a screw propeller on the lake, so as to cause the
air-ship, while floating in its own element, some feet above the
aquatic contrivance, to deviate several points from the straight course
of the wind, as steering by the aid of water, in Mr Goodall’s opinion,
could be more easily managed than by steering solely in the air above.

Whilst this invention was being prepared for trial in the lower grounds
on the lake, the shadows of two outside visitors were cast on the
cotton screen which hung all round the workroom on the inside. As these
persons came nearer to the front window, their shadows became more
distinct, and they represented a tall man and a shorter person behind,
but the leading one was very inquisitive, peering about, trying his
level best to get a glimpse of what was going inside. Lucy, whose quick
eye was the first to detect the intruder, drew Mr Goodall’s attention
to him, when the aeronaut requested them to keep quiet while he had a
good look at the profile of the man, as if it struck him very forcibly
that it was one of the two who had been watching and following him in
London and in the palace.

The little man moved away, but his companion remained looking through
every nook and crevice to see who was inside. Miss Chain, who felt an
irrepressible desire to catch a glimpse of the intruder, took advantage
of a hole in the screen to satisfy her curiosity. She had no sooner
looked than she started back with a scream, and fell fainting into a
chair. The spy, hearing the cry, vanished immediately.

Miss Chain looked pale and frightened, but, with Lucy’s assistance, she
soon recovered herself.

Trigger wanted to open the door and go after the man, but his master
stopped him.

“You had better keep quiet,” said Mr Goodall, “as Miss Chain’s attack
may be, after all, only the result of close air and overwork. A walk
round the archery ground presently will do her all the good in the
world, and, meanwhile, we can go down to the lake to try my air-ship.”

Lucy, although glad to see her friend’s recovery, looked upon the
whole thing as a joke, and remarked as much, whereupon Mr Goodall, who
overheard her, agreed, and laughingly said,--

“A phantom figure has possibly appeared.”

“Pardon me,” said Miss Chain; “it was no phantom I saw, Mr Goodall, but
the figure of one who--”

“There now, don’t take on any more,” said Lucy, as she held the
smelling salts nearer to Miss Chain’s face, and, giving her a
significant nudge, silenced her.

“You will soon be all right,” said Mr Goodall, as he prepared to leave
with Trigger. “You must take a holiday this afternoon and get some
fresh air.”

When, however, the aeronaut and his assistant had left, poor Miss
Chain cast a scared look at the screen and, turning to Lucy, said,--

“Holiday, indeed! This is the worst thing that has happened since I
left Boulogne. I will tell you more of what I mean when we are in the
open air. If I could only meet him face to face, Lucy, instead of only
seeing his shadow!”

“No doubt you would let him have it hot,” replied Lucy, in her honest,
blunt way; “but, as it is only a vision, you had better keep quiet
until he does show up, and then if he opens his mouth and has anything
to say worth hearing, I will chime in and help you.”

“Do you think, Lucy, that creature is prowling about without a fixed
object? He must have heard that I am here. And wasn’t there another man
with him just before I fainted?”

“There, goodness me, Miss Chain, don’t carry on in that way; let us go
out and look at the flowers. Remember that I shall soon have to leave
you for my new situation in the country, but I hope that you will come
and see me in Sussex. Tom says it is at a fine park.”

“I wish I could go too, Lucy.”

“Who knows? The lady might want a companion some day. Come along,
you’ll soon be better.”

“Not if I am worried again in this way by a would-be gentleman, who
has now seen me working for my daily bread through his dishonesty. But
here comes my mother. I am so glad, Lucy, that she went out before he
appeared. Don’t say anything about it to her at present.”

“Never fear, Miss Chain, for I begin to see what you mean, though I
didn’t at first, that you may have really seen that man who tricked you
and your mother at Boulogne in the shameful way you told me about.”

“Hush! Let us drop the subject for to-day.”




CHAPTER II

AN ACCIDENT


Mr Goodall and Tom Trigger made their way down to a sheltered shed
near the cricket ground of the Crystal Palace, with the air-ship,
and they proceeded to inflate it through a small gas-pipe, which was
three-quarters of an inch in diameter. This process occupied an hour,
so that they had ample time to talk about Miss Chain’s fright and fit.

“What is your opinion of what happened just now in the workroom?” asked
Mr Goodall.

“Hardly know, sir, I’m sure. Where there’s smoke there’s fire, and
where there’s shadow there’s substance.”

“Yes, especially as a look through the peep-hole confirmed Miss Chain’s
suspicions, whatever they were.”

“Do you think, sir, that he was looking after her?”

“To be candid, Trigger, I rather thought that the fellow was looking
after me, and wanted to know where my balloons were located. I have
come across him three times before this morning.”

“Indeed, sir, that seems odd.”

“I first saw him in Trafalgar Square, next he passed me in a hansom
when my cab broke down, and then to my surprise he turned up in the
palace, talking to a young lady and a gentleman, and he had that same
little fellow with him whom we saw behind him outside the room. I
noticed, too, that the tall man gave me an ugly look, as if he had some
knowledge of what my business here consisted of.”

“I think I have heard you say, sir, that your uncle and your father
both object to ballooning?”

“Yes, they do. That reminds me, I have just heard that my father has
met with an accident on board one of his own ships. The mishap is
reported to have occurred whilst he was on his way from Sydney to Cape
Town, and my uncle, a merchant in London, is anxiously looking for
further information. I must see him as soon as possible, Trigger. But,
as regards these queer strangers who seem to be following me about, I
scarcely know what to think, for the big, dark fellow is shadowing Miss
Chain as well, it would appear. I hope my uncle has not told him that I
am here.”

“I don’t suppose he has, sir. For my part, I rather think he is after
the young lady.”

“After the pretty girl who was with him in the palace, do you mean?”

“No, sir, I meant after Miss Chain, for he may have known her before
she came here. But these shadows are wonderful things to terrify
people, though I don’t believe they’d send you into a fit, Mr Goodall.”

“They might--into a fit of laughter, Tom. But, look here, I want you to
hurry on, for many reasons, my first ascent, as all the arrangements
are made, and I did think of ascending this afternoon, but I have
decided to be satisfied with a trial of the air-ship instead, and to
baffle this spy. At the same time, the palace directors are relying
upon my keeping faith this week, though no ascent has been announced,
but the gas has been ordered, so that we must proceed as soon as
possible.”

“The air-ship is full now, sir. Shall I turn off the gas?”

“Yes, and I will lead the way to the lake and hold her stem, while you
keep abaft and carry the little steam propeller.”

“I am quite ready, sir. It is just the day for this sort of work.”

“Yes, and I hope that all will go well and lead to something
successful. We must keep to this end of the lake and get her under
weigh before the wind gets up, as a slight ripple is to be seen on
the water down where those boats are. I hope that we shall not be
interrupted by lookers-on.”

The aero-aquatic combination having been connected by cords, Mr Goodall
took up his position on the windward bank, while Trigger went round to
the opposite side to receive the air-ship, and, as one of the palace
police was there in plain clothes, his services were accepted to
assist Trigger when she crossed over, so nothing could have been more
promising to the experimentalists, who looked like boys sailing their
miniature cutters from side to side of a pond.

But, during the third spin, when the ardent aeronaut was intent on
the working of his invention, two boats approached so as to afford
the rowers a closer view of the attractive sight. In the first boat
were two youths, who evidently knew how to use their sculls, but in
the second boat a lady was standing up, eagerly watching the air-ship,
which was moving so prettily over the water, whilst her companion, a
fine-looking man, was pulling almost savagely to get ahead, when the
two boats collided. For a moment the lady swayed to and fro, trying to
regain her balance, then there was a splash and she had disappeared
beneath the water.

Mr Goodall, who was on the side of the lake where the lady fell over,
was expecting to see her reckless rower spring in to her assistance,
but he either lost his head or lacked the courage to do so. Goodall
therefore, found himself instinctively divesting himself of his coat,
shoes and hat, when he dashed in just in time to catch the lady by her
hair as she rose to the surface, and here he held her, whilst the more
spirited youths helped to take her into their boat; but the gentleman,
who looked as if he were jealous of Mr Goodall’s prompt aid, rendered
some tardy assistance at last by holding on to the side of the youths’
boat whilst the lady was being lifted in. She was immediately taken
to the bank, where Trigger and the policeman came to the rescue. At
this juncture, her companion became demonstratively active, while
Trigger ran to the cricket ground refreshment stall and brought back
something to restore the lady, who was not too far gone to perceive
who had rescued her in the nick of time; but her feeble effort to
express her gratitude to Mr Goodall was checked by her now officious
companion whose arm encircled her waist, whilst he ignored the aeronaut
altogether, and seemed to take to himself the credit of having saved
her.

With a smile at this effrontery, Mr Goodall went to see after his
air-ship, which had got among the trees, and Trigger went to fetch his
master’s clothes, which were on the opposite bank.

Meanwhile, the policeman advised that the lady should be taken in a cab
to the Thicket Hotel, which was not far off in the Anerley Road, and
there she was seen to and provided with dry clothes by the landlady.

When Trigger was alone with his master in the workroom, he could not
help expressing his indignation at the “conceited snob,” who had never
even thanked Mr Goodall for his services.

“I only wish,” Tom said, “we had him here, and if I wouldn’t pitch into
him for his cowardly behaviour, may I never ascend with you again, sir!”

“I admire your pluck, Trigger, but you forget that he may have been
here to take note of my movements. You did not notice, perhaps, that
he was the spy, the shadow man, who accompanied the young lady whom I
saw in the palace to-day. In the excitement of the moment, I did not at
first identify the party, but I can very well understand the fellow’s
feelings towards me; besides, I am sure that he is no friend to me.
Mind that you do not, for the present, mention what has happened to
Miss Chain or to Lucy. When I have changed my clothes, I’ll come back
and look up the policeman to find out how the lady is. Remember, not a
word, Trigger.”

“All right, sir; I’m as good as if I were under sealed orders, and I am
not the man to break faith.”

Presently the policeman knocked at the door and informed Mr Goodall
that the lady was getting on nicely, and that the gentleman had gone
up to the Palace Club room to meet the lady’s father, and to inform him
of what had taken place. A carriage was then ordered to take the trio
to catch a train that was going south, but neither the lady nor the
gentleman mentioned where they were going to, or whence they came.

After hearing these particulars, Mr Goodall, who seemed to know the
man’s face, asked him his name.

“My name, sir, is Warner.”

“Ah! I recollect you now perfectly. What is your Christian name?”

“Unfortunately, it is Simon, sir; but I do not belong to the detective
department, though I am as sharp, perhaps, as some of them that do.”

“I daresay, and I’ll get you to keep an eye on my workroom if you will.”

“With pleasure, sir. I know that you have a lot of valuable property
here, and I told your assistant, when I helped him at the lake, that I
would look round occasionally.”

“Thanks, Warner. Now, tell me more about the lady.”

“You saved her life, Mr Goodall, and not a moment too soon, but her
companion tried to make her believe, after you left, that he rescued
her. I couldn’t stand it any longer, and, whilst the gent was out of
the way, I blurted out the plain truth.”

“And what did the lady say to your honest candour, Warner?”

“She replied, ‘You know, policeman, and I know that a strange gentleman
in his shirt sleeves took me out of the water, and I had seen that
stranger once before to-day in the palace, and should you see him
again, express the deepest gratitude to him from me, and I shall hope
to see you again, policeman, if you will leave me your name.’”

“Well done, Simon! You’ll be a rising man some day. I hope you left
your name?”

“No, I didn’t, sir, for I heard the lady’s friend coming before I could
say much more.”

“That was a pity, Warner, though, personally, I do not wish to be mixed
up with that affair more than I have been, as my social position and
family connection compel me to pursue my hobby in as quiet and private
a manner as possible.”

“Yes, sir, I understood something of that sort from Trigger, who told
me not to open my mouth too wide about his master’s doings. In my line
we are careful about that, Mr Goodall; but, hang me if I could keep
from popping in a word about you when I found that the lady was being
told all wrong as to who saved her.”

“You are quite sure that you did not mention my name?”

“Oh no, sir; the lady was hurried off and I don’t suppose that we
shall hear much more about the affair, as people of that sort like to
hush up accidents that would drag their names into the newspapers.”

“Very well, then, Warner, give me a look up soon again. I should like
to have another chat with you.”

“I know, sir, that the lady would have liked to have heard more about
the gentleman who rescued her, as she asked me who you were and when
you were going to make another experiment. Of course I said nothing on
that subject.”

“Ah! Her friend ought to have saved her. I’ve met him several times
before to-day. I suppose you don’t know who he is?”

“I do not, sir, but he looked as if your prompt plunge made him feel
ashamed of himself.”

“He has been hanging about here to catch sight of Miss Chain or of me.”

“It’s my humble opinion, sir, that we shall see him again before long,
and that little man as well.”

“Look sharp after them then, Warner!”

“I’ll do my best, sir, but I am not a trained detective like Hawksworth
whom you know.”

“Do I? I was not aware that I knew anyone of that name.”

“I have seen him in your room, sir.”

“Have you? Then I didn’t know his calling.”

“He is that jolly, chatty person I have seen you speaking to.”

“Do you mean that intelligent, pleasant sort of man who used to
interest himself so much in ballooning, and who used to keep an eye on
people outside by looking through the peep-hole in the screen?”

“That’s the man I mean, sir. That is Jack Hawksworth, who is said to be
a London detective. He has a case on here now, or I should say he is on
the lookout for two criminals from Australia.”

“Now you mention it, I have been surprised to see him in two or three
different ‘get-ups’ in the same day; but really I took him to be
someone connected with the palace.”

“He has not been down long, sir, and I believe he only comes out here
for a change, as he expects to spot his men among the fashionables
inside. His make-up, they say, is wonderful. But I hope you will not
let him know that I have mentioned who he is.”

“Oh that’s all right, Warner, but I shall certainly not satisfy his
inquiries or encourage his visits for the future; but I shall always be
glad to see you here, as you are skilful and discreet.”

“I forgot to mention, Mr Goodall, that the young lady alluded to the
reckless way the dark gentleman rowed their boat to look at your
air-ship. She also said he considered flying machines and flying men
much more useful than balloons.”

“They undoubtedly would be, Warner, if they could be made to fly and
navigate the air.”

“I thought, sir, that men and air machines had flown as high as the
tower yonder.”

“Don’t you believe in anything of that kind, Warner. Why, a fortune
could be made if they could cross and re-cross the North Tower.”

“Then, you don’t believe in directing balloons, sir, or in flying?”

“I have already shown you this morning that balloons, by the combined
aid of air and water, can, to some extent, be guided on the ocean, and
I shall some day try my plan on a larger scale, at sea, perhaps.”

“I should like to assist in that work, Mr Goodall.”

“Well, strange things happen. You may, for all we know, be able to
render assistance in a trial of that sort. It is my desire to show
while I am here the possibility of using balloons for one or two novel
experiments, and to show that they are still, if skilfully handled, of
more value than flying men, and machines which cannot fly.”




CHAPTER III

MESSRS GOODALL BROTHERS


For a short time we will leave the amateur aeronaut, in order to make
the acquaintance of his uncle, Mr William Goodall, who was a merchant
and shipowner in London.

His brother, Mr Henry Goodall, superintended the Sydney branch of the
firm, and was Harry Goodall’s father.

Both uncle and father were very averse to ballooning, and they were
unanimous in desiring that Harry should not only give up that pursuit
and settle down to a mercantile calling, but that he should conform to
their wishes as regards a young heiress, the only daughter of Squire
Dove of Wedwell Hall, Sussex, who was a friend of theirs. The brothers,
indeed, both desired that Harry should make Miss Dove’s acquaintance,
with a view to future matrimony; but he was obstinate, and could not
be persuaded to fall in with their views, of which he had been duly
apprised.

About the time of the lake experiment, Mr William Goodall was expecting
a call from a Mr Falcon, who had embarked at Sydney for Cape Town,
with Henry Goodall in his ship, the _Neptune_. On the voyage, whilst
a strong gale of wind was blowing, an accident had happened to the
owner, which was witnessed by Mr Falcon and his servant. Captain Link,
who commanded the _Neptune_ on this occasion, was not himself an
eye-witness of what took place, as he was on the poop directing the
crew. Mr Falcon was indeed the only person who could give reliable
information, with the exception of the ship’s steward,--who was lying
seriously ill from injuries he received by falling on his head.

Under these circumstances, Mr Falcon came on in a steamer from the
Cape, in advance of the _Neptune_, in order to give the London merchant
full details of the mishap, and to transact some financial business
with Squire Dove of Wedwell Hall, according to an arrangement made with
the Sydney merchant, who had approved of Mr Falcon’s plans and desired
that he should negotiate with Squire Dove on his arrival in England,
though the financier was not empowered to do so by any written document
that he could produce, but by an agreement, as he explained it, prior
to the merchant’s accident.

One evening, while Mr William Goodall was dozing in his armchair, Mr
Falcon was ushered into his presence, and so anxious was the merchant
about his brother’s fate, that he opened the conversation without much
ceremony; however, he did mention, as a business-like prelude, that
his brother Henry had told him by letter that Mr Falcon was going to
England on financial matters of great importance, and that he had
kindly promised to try and persuade Harry to abandon ballooning. It
was moreover mentioned that Mr Falcon would see Squire Dove, as the
financier specially wished to add his name and his contributions to the
new scheme which Mr Falcon had projected, and which he wished to float
in London. Mr Goodall admitted, too, that his brother had spoken of his
intention to handsomely reward Mr Falcon by testamentary disposition,
if he were successful. Mr Falcon was questioned, too, as to a recent
will which Henry Goodall was said to have made just before he left
Sydney,--but the financier was not communicative on this subject.

“Now,” said Mr William Goodall, “tell me what has happened to my
brother?”

“Certainly, sir; it is a painful duty, but I will do so to the best of
my recollection. When I decided upon leaving Sydney, accompanied by
my servant, an invaluable attendant, I had not the remotest idea that
your brother would go part of the way with us. It appears that he had,
only a day or two before the _Neptune_ sailed, made up his mind to go
as far as Cape Town on urgent business, the nature of which he did
not mention to me. We had been great friends for some time in Sydney,
and my servant, knowing his habits, was very useful to both of us on
board. Your brother was almost invariably on deck, for he could not
bear to be cooped up in his cabin owing to an asthmatic affection. And
when a storm sprang up, without much warning, soon after a rapid fall
of the barometer, and before ample preparations could be made to meet
it, whilst the _Neptune_ began to pitch and roll heavily, I begged of
Mr Henry Goodall to go below; but it was useless, he would remain. My
servant and I were both with him, when all hands were ordered to their
stations, and we began to ship heavy seas. Of course Captain Link’s
commands were promptly obeyed--men were sent at once aloft to shorten
sail, but, before they had time to secure the upper sails, the ship was
once or twice almost on her beam ends. The fore-royal and top-gallant
sails were blown out of the roping, and then the _Neptune_ righted,
but, as she flew up to the wind, a fearfully heavy sea struck her on
the port bow, sweeping her decks and dashing all three of us against
the bulwarks. When the ship cleared herself of this terrific sea, I
looked round, and, to my horror, your brother had disappeared. The
steward, who had come on deck to have a look round, immediately gave
the alarm that the owner was overboard, for he had caught sight of a
dark object with outstretched arms being swept over the _Neptune’s_
side. A moment afterwards, he himself was, by another heavy sea, struck
down the companion ladder and stunned. The fury of the gale, however,
was such that no man could live in such a sea. We laid to for more
than an hour and kept a most careful lookout, but no object could be
discerned, so that there remained no doubt, I am sorry to say, that the
owner had perished.”

“Excuse my emotion, Mr Falcon, the news is so shocking; but tell me,
did you or your servant see my poor brother go overboard?”

“We could not possibly do so, sir, as we were ourselves washed against
the bulwarks, and narrowly escaped being swept over too, but the
steward saw him go.”

“And what became of the steward?”

“God knows! I expect he is dead, sir. He was hurt in the spine and
head, so that when I left Cape Town his life was despaired of.”

“Then there is no hope that my poor brother was saved?”

“None whatever, I fear, for we saw nothing near us, so far as the thick
weather enabled us to perceive. An hour or two later, when the moon
rose and the sea went down somewhat, we saw a dismasted vessel in the
distance, but he could not have reached her.”

“I understand you to say that the weather had been thick previously?”

“Very thick, but, as I have said, it cleared afterwards, though no one
on board had the slightest hope that the owner could have survived the
fearful seas which raged at the time.”

At this point, Mr William Goodall was much moved by Mr Falcon’s
recital, then, for some moments, he seemed to be absorbed in
meditation, but, on regaining his self-possession, he exclaimed,--

“I may have to proceed to Sydney, Mr Falcon, but of course not before
Captain Link’s arrival with the _Neptune_. Now I must ask you _not_ to
move in any financial matter connected with me, Squire Dove and others,
or on behalf of my poor brother, at present, if you please, Mr Falcon,
for I shall be most anxious to hear Captain Link’s version of this
terrible affair.”

“I had your brother’s instructions to treat with Squire Dove as soon
after my arrival as possible, sir.”

“Yes, yes; but now that he is dead, you will kindly, I hope, defer to
my wishes under the sad circumstances; and, look here, Mr Falcon, I
would not, should you decide upon seeing my nephew, tell him what has
occurred.”

“In that respect, sir, I will attend to your wishes, but I must do
something, known or unknown by him, to prevent your nephew from seeking
an introduction to Miss Dove until he drops this frantic ballooning,
for I pledged myself to do so to your late brother, Mr Goodall, before
I left Sydney, and I believe, sir, that ‘prevention is better than
cure.’”

“I agree with you there, but you may not be aware that my nephew is
engaged in preparing for a series of ascents from the Crystal Palace
grounds. However, I will not dictate to one of your clear discernment.”

“Don’t, please, Mr Goodall. I shall follow a plan of which I think
you will not disapprove--a plan which may have a certain deterrent
effect--but I shall not put myself forward in such a way that he will
know me by name, nor shall I rashly check his movements.”

“No; I would not attempt to do anything that would scare him or make
him angry; but if you can give him a distaste for his hobby, I presume
you will be carrying out my late brother’s wish--”

“And my own desire, sir; but I had better not argue with him, perhaps,
just now, though my eye will be more frequently upon him than he may be
aware of; in fact, I have already seen him more than once, sir, though
he had no idea of it.”

“Indeed! Then when Captain Link arrives, Mr Falcon, would you like to
meet him, and join us on board near Gravesend?”

“Wouldn’t it be better for you to see Link alone, sir?”

“Yes, I think perhaps it would--and now will you favour me with your
address?”

“Allow me to hand you one of my cards, sir.”

“Ah! I perceive your name is Filcher Falcon.”

“Oh--ah--I have given you the wrong card.”

“Eh? A relative’s, perhaps?”

“You mustn’t guess again, Mr Goodall, but here is my own card and my
hotel, sir; and if you will let me have the other card back, I shall
feel much obliged.”

“Most certainly, Mr Falcon. And now, when do you propose to visit the
Doves?”

“I’ve already looked in at Wedwell Hall, Mr Goodall, on my way up
from Newhaven, as I had a packet to deliver as early after landing as
possible--that was your brother’s express wish.”

“Was it really? But wouldn’t his awfully sudden death check your ardour
a little, and, to be candid, I did not at all understand that you had
seen the Doves. Then, of course, you have seen Miss Edith Dove, the
squire’s only daughter?”

“I had that honour, sir, and found her a most charming young lady.”

“Well, then, as you have seen the young lady that my poor brother
wished his son to marry, you can easily understand what a silly fellow
my nephew is not to avail himself of such a splendid opportunity.”

“Say rather of such a golden opportunity, sir, which not one in a
thousand could resist.”

“May I ask if Mrs Falcon accompanied you to this country?”

“At present, sir, I am struggling on in single infelicity.”

“Well, to be sure! I was not aware of that. But I perceive that you
are of a facetious turn of mind. However, I should advise you to mind
how you deal with my nephew, for, beneath a calm demeanour, he is a
resolute and touchy young fellow and an expert in athletics,” said the
old gentleman, who was really very proud of his nephew. “But perhaps
you know what I mean, Mr Falcon?” he added.

“I don’t see much to fear, sir, but until your nephew throws up
ballooning, it would be perfect madness for him to go down to
Wedwell--to force himself into Miss Dove’s society.”

“Oh! that’s your candid opinion, is it? Then all I have to say further
this evening, is to thank you for this visit, and to remind you that we
must meet again shortly, if you have no objection.”

“Most readily, sir,” replied Mr Falcon, who took his departure with an
air of assurance, which left an impression on the merchant’s mind that
the colonial financier was a highly objectionable character, who was
not a fit companion, much less adviser, for his nephew--and certainly
not for Squire Dove’s rich and lovely daughter.




CHAPTER IV

AN APPEAL


Mr Falcon’s stirring details of the storm and of the loss of Henry
Goodall, left no room for doubt in his brother’s mind that he had
perished; and as the financier, with more haste than discretion, had
visited the Doves and had met with a reception which was warmer than
the merchant was prepared to hear of, it became advisable that he
should send for his nephew to beg of him to forego the allurements of
ballooning and submit himself forthwith to Miss Dove’s fascinations,
which had proved captivating even to the colonial man of figures.
However, Mr Goodall did not at present propose to tell his nephew of
his father’s death.

The situation, judging from Mr Falcon’s disclosures as to his
admiration of Miss Dove, was hourly becoming more critical, so that,
on the arrival of the amateur aeronaut, his uncle, with ill-disguised
earnestness, said,--

“Glad to see you, Harry, especially as urgent affairs almost demand a
meeting between us. Now tell me what you have been doing? I hear that
you have been pottering about at the Crystal Palace with your balloons,
and associating with all sorts of people, instead of being in the city
with me, or visiting the Doves, whose acquaintance you seem reluctant
to make. I am informed that your poor father--”

“Surely nothing serious has happened to him, uncle?”

“I am not saying that, Harry, but I can tell you that your father has
met with an accident, and that he was very anxious about you before he
left Sydney. He has sent on a Mr Falcon to see us, and I am expecting
Captain Link’s return shortly, when I shall hear more precise news.
Now, why not go down at once to Wedwell Hall, in compliance with your
father’s wish and my own? I am amazed at your shortsightedness and lack
of curiosity in not wishing to see and know a wealthy and excellent
young lady, endowed with many good qualities, and who will become the
owner some day of a magnificent property, which you absolutely turn up
your nose at.”

“Are you referring to Miss Dove, uncle?”

“You know I am; and if you fail to win her, someone else will. Some
vulgar millionaire will carry her off while you are messing about in
the clouds. I’ve no patience with you!”

“Do stop, uncle, for I am inclined to remain for the present just as I
am. You cannot make a lover of science into a fortune hunter. If fate
had already thrown me into the society of Miss Dove, I might, or might
not, have fallen in love with her. As it is, I cannot withdraw from
what I have in hand, nor, to be candid, can I become a merchant’s clerk
as a means to an end.”

“Harry Goodall, I am shocked at your folly and want of worldly wisdom.
I admire your courage in saying what you mean, and I have not a word to
say against your general good conduct and exemption from the prevailing
vices of the day, but your persistence in this hallucination, for I can
call it nothing else, is most aggravating.”

“In what other respect, uncle?”

“Why, in mixing yourself up with questionable associates, instead of
moving more among people in your own class of life.”

“There must be good among all classes, uncle, employers and employed.
People in my service, whether men or women, have as high characters,
probably, as many who are above them in social position,” replied the
young man, with spirit. “Another point I will venture to mention,
uncle. I am too young to think of settling down in life just yet.”

“You are not too young to have feminine associates at the Crystal
Palace, so I am told,” said his uncle, turning round sharply.

“I employ respectable needlewomen. No harm will happen to them or to me
at the Crystal Palace, uncle.”

“I trust not, but I think you would be better engaged by seeking
lady-like society. However, I have done what I could for you, and so
has your--your father, but your late indifference to our advice and
wishes is most worrying.”

“You forget, uncle, that I am not actually declining to comply with
your requests, so far as a visit to the Doves goes, but I cannot do so
at present.”

“Then I decline to say any more to you, beyond this,--Take care, Harry
Goodall, that you are not cut off with a bare pittance. Your future
prospects depend upon your giving up your hobby, to begin with. Whilst
you continue a balloonatic, if I may use a strong term, you will never
be welcome at Wedwell.”

“I fail to see why, uncle.”

“Well, more fool you. That is all I have to say, beyond this one
reminder. I happen to know that if you persist in not seeking Miss
Dove’s hand, she will soon be wooed, and very likely won, while you
are thinking about it. Then it will be too late, my boy, and as to
myself, I may have to leave England, perhaps very soon; but your--your
considerate father, before he left Sydney, commissioned a friend to
seek you out and advise you to turn your attention to matters of
business, and not to wilfully neglect Wedwell Hall.”

Scarcely had Mr Goodall concluded what he was saying, when a servant
announced the arrival of the “Ship Photographer.”

“I don’t know such a person,” replied the merchant, “but perhaps you
won’t mind seeing him, Harry? At anyrate, show him up,” said Mr Goodall
to the servant.

“Which ship of mine have you photographed, pray?” said the merchant to
the man as he entered.

“Mr Goodall’s air-ship, sir.”

“Air-ship? That must be a vessel belonging to my nephew?”

“Yes, sir.”

The aeronaut here interposed, indignantly asking by what right the man
had gained admittance?

“Stay, stay, Harry,” cried the merchant; “he may have something worth
showing--something nautical, perhaps?”

“Not altogether nautical, sir, but aeronautical,” replied the
photographer, apologetically.

“Then your errand is connected with my nephew, and not with me?”

“Precisely, sir. I have hurried over from Sydenham to show my first
proofs of the ‘Rescue of the Lady on the Lake.’”

“The rescue of the lady on the lake!” exclaimed the merchant, with
surprise.

“I protest, uncle, against this liberty and intrusion,” said Harry. “I
have had no notice that such a subject was to be published.”

“Sir,” said the photographer, “do permit me, with the most respectful
deference, to explain that I was taking views around the lake at the
Crystal Palace when you rescued that young lady from a watery grave.”

“What business had you--” began Harry.

“Go on, photographer,” cried the merchant. “My nephew seems to want
to hide a praiseworthy act. Let _me_ see these proofs that you have
brought.”

“Certainly, sir.”

“Ay--yes. I daresay they have an interest and value of their own, but,
without my glasses, I cannot very well decipher the different figures.
I must study them a little, for I fancy I know one face. You can leave
these with me while you go below and get some refreshment. I will ring
the bell.”

“All I want, gentlemen, is your authority to publish them.”

“On no account whatever,” said Harry, emphatically.

“I certainly agree with my nephew there,” added the merchant.

“James,” said Mr Goodall to the servant who came in answer to the
bell, “see that some refreshment is sent up into the dining-room for
this gentleman.”

“Yes, sir.”

“Wait one minute, Mr Photographer, while I take another glance at your
photos. Yes, Harry, there you are, as plain as a pike-staff, in the
water, lifting up a lady, who looks more dead than alive, into a boat.
She has golden hair--dear, dear--and some distance from her is a man.
Surely I know that face. Who is he, photographer?”

“He was said to be the lady’s intended, sir.”

“The deuce he was; he doesn’t look as if he were worthy of her. I’m
glad to see my nephew occupies the post of honour.”

“It was a splendid act on the part of Mr Harry Goodall, but the gent
who is holding down the boat to balance it whilst the lady is being
lifted in, doesn’t show up to great advantage.”

“You don’t happen to know his name?” again asked Mr Goodall.

“No, sir; I wish I did, for several people have asked me, as he has
been cutting rather a queer figure at the Crystal Palace lately,
gentlemen, which you might have heard about?”

“Now,” said Mr Goodall, with a fixed look at the photographer, “you go
down and have some refreshment whilst I have a chat with my nephew.”

“Much obliged, I’m sure, sir.”

“You, Harry, must buy the negative of this affair, and so prevent
anything approaching to publicity; and if you attach no value to these
photos, I do. There is one for you and I will keep the other, and
here’s some extra cash to square the artist with, but don’t lose sight
of him until you reach Sydenham, and make the best arrangement you can;
that being done, do, my dear Harry, bring your travels in the air to a
close. I am not without hope that you will yet make your mark in the
world; in fact, you have done so already. If you are pledged to make
these ascents, do so, dear boy, and then do something more congenial
to my taste, for I will not hide from you that the accident to your
father may prove a turning point to the fortunes of our firm, and that
is why I wish to impress on you the great issues which may follow your
decision as to giving up ballooning and seeking an alliance with Miss
Dove.”

“When will this messenger from the pater come to see me, uncle?”

“I cannot answer that question off-hand. He may have been to the
Palace without your knowing it; but be guarded, Harry; he may not be a
well-wisher to you, after all.”

“Do you think the photo of the downcast man in the boat is like Mr
Falcon?”

“I can’t say for certain until I have studied the photo more closely.
There is some resemblance to the Sydney financier; at the same time,
his figure is something like our friend Captain Link’s, though his
expression of face is not so noble. I am rather puzzled to know what
his movements have been down at Wedwell Hall. He has been to see the
Doves on some monetary affairs, and I should have been glad to hear
that you had been there as well. However, it would be of little use, I
feel sure, for you to go there until you cut ballooning and join us in
the City.”

“I will think seriously of what you have said, uncle, but I will make
no promises.”

“Better not, Harry, if you would be likely to break them. I want
performances not promises, and I have faith in you yet; that is, if you
do not drift into the extreme flightiness of the days in which we live.”

“My own efforts, uncle, will not be in the form of flight; but they may
tend to expose the extravagances of those who pretend that they can
steer and fly.”

“And what then are _you_ going to do with balloons?”

“I hardly know at present, uncle, but I hope to show that balloons
and an air-ship can be made to do much more useful work than they are
supposed to be capable of performing.”

“Well, Harry, if in that negative style you can do the least good,
I wish you success, but I strongly recommend you to let aeronautics
alone, and to seek my friend Squire Dove and his daughter. That will be
a more profitable pastime, I should say.”




CHAPTER V

SCHEMING!


Harry Goodall returned to his rooms on Sydenham Hill, having travelled
with the ship photographer, whose productions had worked such a
marvellous change in Uncle Goodall.

A monetary settlement was speedily arrived at the same evening, when a
lively chat ensued, in which the aeronaut agreed with the photographer
as to the gentleman on the lake being known to Mr Goodall, who advised
his nephew, after the dispute at his residence, to pull off his ascents
quickly. However, the cheery conclusion of the aeronaut’s interview
caused him to sleep soundly and to be up in good time the next morning
to meet Tom Trigger, who had taken the opportunity of his master’s
absence to go down with his Lucy to her new situation in Sussex, after
which outing, Tom brought back such agreeable recollections of his
trip, that Harry Goodall had to listen to what he had seen, and how
the gamekeeper, Bennet, had given him a turn at rabbit shooting with a
wonderful killing gun, which Trigger was supposed to have handled with
surprising dexterity. He ended his story by saying that Lucy’s last
words to him were that he should be kind to Miss Chain, who had been
so cruelly imposed upon by the man whose shadow on the screen she had
positively identified, and which Harry Goodall began himself to infer
was no other than a correct representation of the mysterious Mr Falcon.

“But hold on, Tom,” cried his master, as his assistant was proceeding
with what he had seen and done; “we shall have to finish your trip as
we walk through the Palace. I am very glad to hear that Lucy has found
such a nice situation, and as to Miss Chain’s tormentor, you and I may
settle the reckoning with him some day perhaps, but I must remind you
that we have not a moment to spare, for, weather permitting, an ascent
must positively take place to-morrow.”

“Very good, sir,” said Trigger; “and may I ask how you got on with your
uncle, sir?”

“The finish was better than the start, Tom. I held my ground and stood
to my guns during a hotly-contested action on both sides, when a lucky
turn was given to the affair by the arrival of a photographer from this
establishment.”

“Oh, yes; he showed me a capital photo. When I told him where you
were, then he handed me one, sir, which I gave to Lucy before she left
here.”

“Be sure you tell her to destroy it, Tom, or not to show it.”

“I will, sir, next time I see her.”

“I have suppressed them, Tom, as they might expose just what I want to
keep secret--namely, the rescue of that lady.”

“I don’t think, sir, that one I gave to Lucy will do much harm in her
care, as she did not look at it much; besides, she doesn’t know about
the lake affair.”

“Good! We must now confine ourselves, Trigger, to the necessary
preparations for the morning. I wish those two parachutes to be seen to
and the triangular frames for our model balloons, which will prove a
novelty.”

“I suppose, sir, we shall want the small silk balloon for the
signalling experiment?”

“Yes, you must see that they are all in readiness, as I do not intend
to follow on the old lines, even with pilot balloons and parachutes. I
will show, if possible, another and more instructive way of employing
them than has hitherto been adopted. Balloons and parachutes as well
can be applied, you know, Trigger, to better uses than they have been,
as my respected instructor has impressed upon me, and he suggested also
the _modus operandi_ which I am about to try.”

“And I have no doubt they will succeed, sir. I was going to ask, too,
whether Messrs Brock had not better see about your torpedoes and aerial
shells which you intend using?”

“They are already made, Trigger; but you can let them know that they
will be wanted to-morrow.”

“Do you expect any of the military aeronauts here, sir?”

“Oh, no. I have not invited anyone. What I undertake will be to show
what has been left untouched by war-balloonists, although I admit that
some of our military aeronauts are very clever and are likely to figure
creditably in actual warfare. But of late, almost anybody is supposed
to be qualified for public ballooning, so long as he is what is termed
a break-neck fellow, and this qualification, without other equally
important ones, has brought about such a long list of fatalities.”

“Everybody ought to know, sir, that successful aeronauts are born, not
made.”

“Yes, quite so; but here comes Warner. I must have a few words with him
in private, to ascertain if he has any tidings of the spy, or of this
great detective, who has made our acquaintance without our knowing who
he was.”

“Do you mean Hawksworth, sir?”

“Yes, that’s the very man, and Warner tells me he is an expert in his
line; but, if I am not very much deceived, Warner would accomplish
quite as much if he were promoted, and without so much flourish of
trumpets.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The next day, the gorgeous balloon was brought out betimes, though the
ascent was not to take place until the afternoon, but Mr Goodall wished
to have everything ready, so that the inflation could begin before the
dinner hour. The supply of gas was known to be abundant, and a special
main of large dimensions was found beneath a slight slope, where a
roped circle was staked off to keep the ordinary visitors at a suitable
distance. A telegram had been despatched to Mr Magnus Ohren, C.E., at
the Lower Sydenham Gas Works, and to Mr C. Gandon, the engineer, to
say that their inspector would be able to turn on at 11.30 a.m. to the
minute, and by that time the first stream of gas was seen to raise the
flat silk, so that in less than half an hour a dome of resplendent
alternate segments of amber and crimson gores elicited the admiration
of many spectators. In fact, there were already present, as regular
daily visitors to the Palace, rather more than the amateur aeronaut
cared about seeing, as he knew that they would increase in numbers as
the day went on, for he dreaded anything approaching to a Bank Holiday
crowd.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whilst the filling of the giant machine was going on, Mr Falcon and his
servant, Croft, stealthily entered the turnstile of the North Tower,
to quietly discuss their past undertakings and future plans, well
knowing that at such an early hour they would, in all probability, be
alone on the balcony, having at the same time a good view of all that
was going on. It was in this secluded spot that they drifted into a
retrospect of their previous doings, but naturally their remarks were
made in such a strain that no third person could make head or tail of
what they were alluding to, although their ambiguity and references
might have attracted the attention of Simon Warner, or of Hawksworth,
had either of them been within earshot of their observations. However,
as it happened, they were undisturbed for more than twenty minutes and
chatted freely together, as the new lift at that time had not been
attached to the tower.

“What a magnificent prospect we have, Croft!” exclaimed Falcon.

“It is that, sir, for we are ‘monarchs of all we survey;’ at least, we
shall be so eventually, I hope.”

“How so, Eben? I shorten your Christian name of Ebenezer for prudential
reasons.”

“I tumble to that, without objecting. What I mean, Mr Falcon, is this,
You wish, if not entirely, to remove, at anyrate, to disable the
amateur skyscraper yonder, as well as his balloon and his assistant.”

“Just so, but who would have thought, Eben, that a man playing the
menial _rôle_ you do would rise above the level of gaol-birds, and talk
as you can when you like!”

“You needn’t taunt me with that; you know I was well brought up, and
but for our adventures--”

“Hold on! I thought I heard footsteps. Take a look round, Eben, while
I pose as an artist taking sketches, from a lofty standpoint, of the
aeronautic scene.”

“What you say is all very fine, Mr F., but time is money. Let us come
to the point.”

“Very well then, here goes. On our left is the balloon, looking as if
it could be easily destroyed. An idea flashes upon my mind that I can
manage that much at the descent, Eben.”

“Exactly; if you can manage to be there, Mr F.”

“Well, look here, Eben, the wind, don’t you see, is blowing down to
Gravesend, and, as I want to look round Tilbury way, to find out when
a certain ship enters the Thames, I shall presently move in that
direction to watch what comes in, and also what comes down that way
from aloft; for I may as well tell you, that as Goodall served me out
by his masterly rescue of that lady, I mean to give him a Roland for an
Oliver by spoiling his beauty, so that he cannot present himself at
Wedwell. You follow me, Eben, don’t you?”

“I do, and will gladly consent to do as you propose.”

“That’s settled then; I need say no more on that head.”

“But supposing that you do mar and cripple the hobbyist and his hobby,
what is your special object for taking on such a risky performance?”

“Why, you short-sighted man, to have the heiress, Miss D., all to
myself, of course. I don’t want, between ourselves, such a man as
Harry Goodall to even show his face at Wedwell Park--either as a young
merchant or in any other capacity; for we must have two strings to our
bow, in case our work on board the _Neptune_ fails to pay. We did our
stroke of business on the other side of the world, and the owner of the
_Neptune_ is--”

“Hold on, Mr F.; let’s have no more reminders of that sort, if you
please. But, by-the-bye, how about the will?”

“Not proven, at present, Eben; but didn’t I manage that finely, and the
life assurances in Sydney as well. They, you remember, preceded the
starting of my financial scheme, which the squire is nibbling at, and
I will give him something else to nibble at,--namely, a novel mode of
flight.”

“Ay, ay, nibbling is all very well in its way, and so is flying, but
will the squire bolt the bait as you are preparing it?”

“I think so, Eben, but you must hear the rest of my plan. Now listen,
on the left, well under us, is the balloon, and on our right, almost
directly beneath us, is Goodall’s workroom, through the top of which we
can see everything, as there is no screen there--”

“Ah! now I begin to grasp what you wish to do.”

“What then?”

“Why, to drop a shell down there, and--”

“Nothing of the sort, Eben. Wrong again, my boy. All I want is this,
You see that door below, leading into the engine-house, near the
foundation of the glass-room?”

“Yes; what of that?”

“Well, just inside that engine-house there used to be, and most likely
is now, a disused back staircase that leads to the glass-room. I now
propose that you should just explore there, and if the Chains are
thereabout, or Goodall or Tom T., you can hold off--any way you will,
if you once gain access, during the dinner hour, so as to grope your
way about and leave your marks, for, as you know, I formerly had some
financial business with the Chains, and don’t want to see much more of
them. But mind what you are about. Don’t be rash, Eben. I only want
this to be a little voyage of discovery.”

“You can consider that done, Mr F. I see now that I know what your
little game is; but what else am I to do?”

“You must first creep and then go ahead afterwards, when I tell you to
do so. The first part of my plan of campaign is this,--The Chains must
be shifted, but not removed, mind that--you know what I mean--neither
dynamite nor bloodshed, but milder measures.”

“Such as you adopted--”

“Halt, man, halt. In the name of common sense, what were you going to
say?”

“Not much more I can tell you, guv’nor. The fact is, we must cut it
short and get to work. Just lend me your opera glass please.”

“What for?”

“Why to see what I can make of that fellow talking to Mr G. near the
blessed balloon. Does he look anything like Jack Hawksworth?”

“What, that muff who was expected in New South Wales! I shouldn’t fear
him, Eben, but I can see Warner drawing this way; he is the one to
avoid.”

“Then we’d better make a move.”

“Agreed, Eben; but half way down the steps we had quite as well wheel
round behind the shaft, so as to give Mr W. the go by, in case he is
looking about and has seen us up here already.”

“One more word before we separate, Mr F. Whom am I to have if you carry
off the heiress?”

“You shall have that smart girl, Lucy, and a pub, close to Wedwell,
with a handsome retiring allowance, and, if you get into Goodall’s
workroom, mind you collar that manuscript of a ‘New Flying Machine,’
which is thought to be all rubbish--it may be useful to us--as well as
other tit-bits.”

       *       *       *       *       *

During the progress of this lofty chat, Mr Harry Goodall and Tom
Trigger were still busy in letting up the net-work, so that the new
balloon rapidly developed, and it was the opinion of everyone present
that so symmetrical a balloon had not been seen at the palace for many
years previously.

After some little time had elapsed, Miss Chain and her mother rather
impulsively left the workroom. Soon after they had done so, a slight
disturbance took place close to the North Tower, near to which Miss
Chain and her mother were sauntering. Here a cry was raised that a
thief was in custody. There were two or three policemen on duty near
the balloon, Warner being one of them, and now Warner was seen to be
bringing someone to the enclosure. He was a diminutive man, though
stiffly built, and had been seen coming out of the engine-house, from
which there was access by a disused back staircase to Mr Goodall’s
room, where, of course, the prisoner had no business to be.

Tom Trigger, who about this time went into the workroom for the
parachutes, noticed that the inner door had been forced open and left
ajar.

Warner’s clothes showed that there must have been a tussle with his
prisoner before he was brought to the aeronaut, who said to him,--

“What have you been doing, my man, and where do you come from?”

“My name is Eben, sir. I came with my master from Sussex, and I was
looking about for him--he came to see the balloon, but I expect he has
left for Tilbury, as he had to go that way this afternoon.”

“Oh, that’s it, is it,” said Harry Goodall, who did not think much of
his offence. “Do you think you need detain him?” he added, turning to
Warner.

“I must do that, sir. He will have to go before our inspector and the
general manager, as he was inside the company’s private premises.
Besides, I have reason to know he was in your room, too, Mr Goodall.”

“Someone has been there,” said Trigger, who had returned. “The inside
door was open, a thing we’ve never seen before.”

In reply to a question as to the state of Warner’s clothes, the
policeman said,--

“He is a downright Pocket Hercules, Mr Goodall--he floored me by his
wonderful strength. I had been following him from the tower, where he
had been for some time with a big, swell-looking chap, whom I have seen
before, sir, though to-day he was got up in quite a different suit.
They had been looking down from the balcony on your balloon store,
and they came down together--the tall customer left, but this man went
inside your workroom, I saw him there, after which he came out through
the engine-house.”

Trigger then explained that he had seen them dodging about earlier in
the morning.

“I thought they looked like two of the party at the lake, sir.”

“Nothing of the sort,” cried the prisoner. “My master is a rich
gentleman, and we came up by the Brighton line.”

“You must get to the bottom of this elsewhere,” said Mr Goodall.

“I shall be glad, sir,” said Warner, “if you could spare Trigger for a
short time to state what he saw.”

“If anybody swears he saw me inside the room,” cried the intruder, “he
will be a confounded--”

“Hush, my man, I insist upon it, you will only aggravate your case,”
said Harry Goodall, “and now that I get a closer look at your face,
didn’t I see you and a tall, dark man a day or two since in Trafalgar
Square?”

“No, sir, it must have been someone else, sir.”

“I am sure it was not--however,” said Mr Goodall, turning to Warner,
“he can’t stay here any longer. Remove him.”

Whilst Miss Chain and her mother were walking round, keeping within
call of the aeronaut in case they were wanted, they observed a figure
which seemed familiar to them pass by as he hurried down the grounds.
He had on spectacles and a profusion of sandy-looking hair, which they
took to be a wig, for he closely resembled the “shadow man” in his gait
and walk. And when a reversible-looking coat flew open, as he hastily
sped along, Mrs Chain exclaimed,--

“Look at that cable-laid watch chain, dear! How very like your
father’s!”

“I do believe it is,” said Miss Chain, as the man hurried onwards.
“Surely he is Filcher who robbed us in Boulogne, anyway he is the
‘spy’--the one who has been tormenting us here.”

During the time that Trigger and Warner were absent at the police
station, the amateur aeronaut had a few hasty words with Hawksworth,
the so-called detective, who had deigned to listen to a part of the
altercation, at a distance, between Warner and his prisoner. Hawksworth
appeared to have been highly amused at the feeble attempt to find
out something against this little fellow, who had not, he thought,
from what little he had heard, done anything worth noticing, beyond
mistaking his way while leaving the tower. This self-sufficient officer
was of opinion that the paltry evidence elicited by Warner amounted to
very little--there was no proof of his guilt.

“I really,” replied the aeronaut, “have no time or mind to enter
just now upon a discussion as to detective theories. Warner, whose
intelligence I am ready to support on a more suitable occasion, has
taken this man in the act of having committed a trespass, and he is
acting not upon ‘vague clues or roundabout rumours,’ but on stubborn
facts. I believe that Warner knows perfectly well what he is about, and
that the prisoner knows more about this tall confederate than you do
probably.”

“Most likely, Mr Goodall,” replied Hawksworth, “for I merely caught a
portion of what was said; you mentioned something about a second tall
man, sir?”

“I cannot spare time to enlighten you any further, Mr Hawksworth.”

“But this silly, card-sharping looking lad merely said,” whispered the
tall detective derisively, “that he came from Sussex--had he hailed
from the other side of the world, sir, I should have opened my own
eyes.”

“Yes, I have heard that you are expecting two clients from Australia;
but we had better stop chatting, there are listeners near us, Mr
Hawksworth.”

“You are right, sir, and I am wrong in interfering, perhaps. Kindly
excuse me for having blundered.”

“I am afraid _you have blundered_,” cried Simon Warner, “if you think
that little man is guileless, for he looked at you as if he knew you.”

“I am perfectly ignorant as to who he is, or what he is doing here!”
exclaimed the detective.

“More’s the pity,” cried Warner, who then placed Croft, the Pocket
Hercules, under proper care.




CHAPTER VI

AERONAUTICS


After Harry Goodall had finished his conversation with Hawksworth,
he became very busy with the help of the gas men and the gardeners.
The lower net-lines had been fixed to the hoop and the car, and then,
when the balloon stood proudly erect, it presented a most magnificent
specimen of the aeronautic art. Directly Trigger returned, and the
filling had been completed, Mr Goodall began to inflate some small
balloons, which were designed to provide an object lesson of some
interest, besides showing what course the large balloon would take when
set free.

It happened that on this occasion, which was considered a special and
select affair, several of the directors and their friends were present,
besides men of scientific knowledge, among whom was Mr Arthur Deck,
of Cambridge, who has made so many aerial trips from a pure love and
desire to encourage the advancement of ballooning. The last-named
gentleman, as well as the directors, declared that they had never seen
more interesting miniature balloons than those which were to precede
the great ascent. There were only three of them on each frame, but they
were of varied colours, having, as Mr Deck thought, rather a political
signification, for they had each a crowned head and other devices on
the centre belt, which, as the aeronaut pointed out, were symbolical of
the Triple Alliance and of Union and Strength.

The three balloons were attached to the corners of a triangular frame
of wood, which was well balanced by three lines connected to a central
weight hanging beneath the frame.

Mr Goodall, in an unpretentious manner, went on to say that he would
next show them another set of balloons. Three more of blue, primrose
and green, and they would also be fixed fast to another triangular
frame, but the devices on them would at once show that they represented
the United Kingdom. Shortly afterwards, whilst casting them free into
space, the aeronaut remarked,--

“We must keep an eye on them, for I cannot guarantee that they will
remain united.”

This remark produced fresh curiosity.

However, they did hold together for a time, and by so doing, attained
a great elevation, but at their culminating point a noise was heard
and smoke was seen under the lovely-looking emerald balloon, which
suddenly became disunited, much to the disturbance of the balance and
power of the two firm and secure balloons. It was true, as a spectator
said, that the green one shot up like a rocket, but equally true was
it that she came down soon afterwards like a stick, in a very shaky
and disorganised state, while the two staunch balloons remained fast
friends and still held their own, notwithstanding the separation of the
green balloon.

“And this illustration will show you,” said the aeronaut, “what may
happen when--”

“Home Rule is passed,” cried a wiseacre close by.

However, the illustrations gave satisfaction, and produced a lively
cheer without causing any ill-feeling, so that Tom Trigger was called
upon next to bring forth the two parachutes, which gave rise to some
sensational expectations, especially on the part of a bystander,
who looked like a provincial balloonist, and who exclaimed, with a
depreciatory laugh,--

“Oh! they are going to do a drop!”

“Are they?” said Trigger; “it will be with something hot then if they
do.”

“What a pity,” remarked one of the directors, _sotto voce_; “that will
spoil all.”

The parachutes, however, were attached to the netting of the large
balloon--one on each side. Then Mr Brock, the pyrotechnist, came
forward with his assistants and produced two hoops, on which a number
of bombshells were fixed, and these petards gave rise to singular
apprehensions, but the aeronaut explained as did the firework maker,
that they would not prove risky according to the way in which Mr
Goodall intended to employ them, as they could not explode until they
and the parachutes were lowered a certain distance from the balloon,
and even then a second precautionary measure would have to be resorted
to before any explosion could take place. They were simply designed to
illustrate the application of parachutes for warlike purposes, and were
not intended for bringing down acrobatic balloonists in safety.

This lucid and unlooked-for explanation proved so far satisfactory,
that the amateur aeronaut and his assistant took their places in the
car, when the after arrangements were so carefully made that the
liberation of the balloon was not attended by so much risk as the
uninitiated expected. The ascent was grand in the extreme, and when
the first parachute was detached, and it immediately spread out, all
fear was lost in admiration, particularly when the first shell dropped
about 200 feet and exploded with the sound of a twelve-pounder; then
followed another shell, which burst at about 500 feet lower down, and
after that a succession of discharges took place, illustrative of the
manner in which naval or military forces could be harassed through the
instrumentality of parachutes and bombs in conjunction with balloons,
either with or without the personal aid of practical men in the car.
And Mr Goodall further demonstrated, by the use of a second parachute,
how the line of bombardment could be kept up, and how a number of
comparatively small balloons could thus sustain a properly organised
aerial attack, without any far-fetched pretensions of introducing
navigable machines of foreign types, which would not act as designed
perhaps. But, with those proposed, it would only be necessary to take
up a suitable position on the windward side of a hostile force to
apply with advantage such up-to-date contrivances which have not as
yet been turned to an available account in the way set forth in these
pages, for it is indisputable that “The Powers that be” are too often
looking abroad for new lights and men with unpractical schemes, while
they ignore experienced air-travellers at home, who could show them a
more excellent method of using balloons and parachutes, even without
waiting for navigable machines, which would admittedly facilitate such
operations in mid-air if they could be depended upon to act in the way
they have been promised to do by sanguine inventors. It must not be
forgotten, however, that military aeronauts, in the pursuit of their
speciality, could not rely upon grand expectations during the tug of
war. At such a time, in an emergency, England would have to provide
the right men in the right place, and to build only such contrivances
as had been thoroughly tested.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Harry Goodall’s balloon lost the weight of the parachutes and
their appendages, it rose to a considerable elevation, exceeding 7000
feet from the earth, and here he was compelled to lessen his altitude,
as the drift of the upper current was straight for the mouth of the
river; but as he was not more than three miles in a direct line from
the Crystal Palace, he determined at this distance to try his old
preceptor’s idea of long-distance signalling, which he proceeded to do
in the following way.

He had with him a smaller balloon which was not very much more than
half inflated with air, effected by means of a fan. He had informed
his friend, Mr Deck, before starting, that if he lowered this from
a reel, which was fixed across the hoop to four times the length of
the balloon and car, the signal would mean a distance of 250 feet, a
second indication on the scale would imply 500 feet, and these relative
heights would enable the spectators to form some idea of what the
barometrical height really was; as the first signal, indicative of 250
feet, would be nearly equal to a quarter of an inch less pressure, and
the 500 feet signal of the inverted air balloon would imply nearly
half an inch of reduced pressure of air near the barometer. Thus this
long-distance signalling, which the writer of these remarks first
introduced at the Crystal Palace in the year 1880, would enable the
spectators to form an approximate estimate of the height attained by
the balloon, though previously no such intimation had ever been given
from the explorers to those who were watching their ascent from below.

Another useful plan was adopted by the amateur aeronaut as he left the
palace grounds. Upon being asked by a director present, if he would
give the word to “let go,” so that all the men might do so at the same
moment, he replied,--

“Certainly not. My plan is to detach the balloon at a favourable moment
by this instrument which acts instantaneously as a liberator. It is the
system adopted by the colleague of Mr James Glaisher, F.R.S., in the
scientific ascents made over thirty years ago, and which the famous
meteorologist so much approved of.”

Whilst Harry Goodall and his assistant were actively engaged up aloft,
they had not much time to survey the surrounding country, although the
counties of Surrey, Kent, Essex and Middlesex were very beautifully
stretched out in a map-like form beneath them, for their course had to
be narrowly watched owing to their proximity to Gravesend Long Reach
and towards the Nore Lightship. Besides, it was not the aeronaut’s
desire to make a prolonged trip, as, for one reason, he felt anxious
about his property in the workroom, and for another he wanted to
ascertain more as to what the man Eben had stolen, and whether he had
been set free after Tom Trigger left the palace, or whether he was
locked up for the night, for it was quite evident that his assistant
had formed a very unfavourable opinion of him.

When the aeronaut found that, by a somewhat different undercurrent,
his balloon was getting near to Northfleet Marsh, and that they were
sinking fast, it became necessary to watch the course of a large,
full-rigged vessel which was being towed up to one of the docks,
and just as they were skimming over the ship, and Harry Goodall was
wondering why the crew did not cheer, he suddenly drew in his head from
looking over the car as if he had been shot, and said,--

“I have made a discovery, Trigger; we are right over the _Neptune_, my
father’s ship from Sydney. See, there stands Captain Link with his cap
in his hand, and there, too, on the poop, is my Uncle Goodall with his
head down, apparently reading a letter.”

“Perhaps someone is dead on board, sir,” observed Trigger, with a
serious look, just as they became enveloped in the black smoke of the
tug, so that they saw no more of the vessel until they were over the
sea-wall on the Essex banks of the river.

“My uncle told me,” said Harry Goodall, “that he was expecting the
arrival of Captain Link, but I am awfully sorry to have passed right
over the _Neptune_, as it looks like sheer defiance, knowing his
dislike to ballooning. No wonder that my uncle held down his head, and
that the crew were as silent as the grave.”

“I didn’t notice the flag, sir, if it was at half-mast; but I sha’n’t
look back, as they say it is unlucky.”

“Then don’t do it, Tom; besides, can’t you see that the grapnel is near
the ground. We may as well pull up on this Essex marsh so as to get
close to the railway station over there, for I feel as if some disaster
has taken place, or as if something were going to happen somehow. But
tell me, Trigger, what is that glittering in your side pocket?”

“Only my revolver, sir. Things looked so queer this morning that I
thought we ought to be prepared for squalls, and if you don’t mind,
sir, I’ll pop some cartridges in the chambers, as there is no fear now
of any bumping. Your presentiment just reminded me of it; anyhow there
is no harm in being ready for any rough customers.”

By-and-by they saw that people were running in the course of the
balloon.

“Sing out, Tom,” said Mr Goodall, “and tell that fellow who is
spearing eels to mind the trail of the grapnel--there he stands close
to that person with spectacles.”

“Spectacles, sir? Oh, yes, I see him; they’re standing clear now.”

“All right, Tom, the grapnel is fast. I’ll let off gas as quickly as
possible, and, as there are several men coming up, suppose you jump
out; I’ve crippled her sufficiently for you to do so with safety.”

“But mind you keep an eye, sir, on that party with spectacles. Don’t
you see who he is like?”

“All right, Tom; I’ve no time to notice resemblances just now, but I’ll
keep an eye on the fellow, anyway.”

The eel-catcher was taken into Trigger’s confidence, with a promise
of reward if he stuck to him on one side of the balloon, by pulling
down the netting to drive out the gas, while Mr Goodall and another
lot of men were drawing down on the other side. Whilst the men were
doing this, Mr Goodall held on to the valve line to more quickly let
out the gas, but as he did so he crouched down behind the car, so that
the man with spectacles did not see him. In the meantime Trigger had
placed the crown valve on the shoulders of two men to admit of the gas
escaping more readily, and then went to the eel-spearer to give fresh
instructions. Now, whilst everybody was gazing intently at the balloon,
the man with spectacles went a little way off, took off his glasses,
turned his coat which was a reversible one, and then sauntered slowly
back. When Mr Goodall, who was still crouched down, noticed that his
coat was quite another colour, and that, in fact, the fellow looked
like another person, he became still more watchful of his movements.
The man then went towards the crown of the balloon as it lay on the
ground, and when the silk was not more than a few feet above the grass,
the aeronaut saw the fellow strike a match under the pretence of
lighting a cigarette, and then throw it, all ablaze, over the valve.
Immediately a long lambent flame shot up to a height of several feet,
when Trigger sang out to his master, but Mr Goodall had, directly he
saw the match lighted, with great presence of mind, let go the valve
line, when the shutters of the valve closed with a resonant flap;
thus the flame was fortunately extinguished. Had this step not been
taken with the quickness of thought, the entire silk would have been
destroyed, and most likely Mr Goodall would have been burnt and other
lives endangered.

Tom Trigger immediately flew towards the valve, followed by the
fisherman and Mr Goodall, but fortunately no harm had been done, beyond
a singeing to the wooden framework. Had it not been held up, however,
the silk would have been fired, but Mr Goodall’s prompt release of the
cord brought the two shutters so close to the frame that the explosion
was prevented in the very nick of time.

“Where is that spectacled chap?” asked the eel-catcher. “He told me an
hour ago that he was looking for a balloon which would come this way.”

“There he goes!” cried Mr Goodall, who knew him by his altered
appearance.

“He is making for the station,” cried the fisherman, “to catch that
train coming in from Tilbury!”

“Let us go after him,” cried Trigger, who started with his master and
the eel-spearer in pursuit. The man, however, kept well ahead, and Tom
became so exasperated at the thought of his escape that he pulled out
his pistol and let fly one after another each barrel, holding it well
up to allow for distance.

“That is the spy, the shadow man,” cried Tom to his master. “I hope he
is hit, sir.”

The result was uncertain, however, as he got into the station and just
caught the train, so that when his pursuers came up they ascertained
that he had to be pushed into a carriage because he seemed to be lame.

Thus foiled, the aeronauts returned to their work, and engaged a
conveyance for the balloon, which was packed into the car and taken to
the station, to go by the next train to Fenchurch Street.

On their way back to Sydenham they saw nothing whatever of the
incendiary, who, they felt sure, was Eben’s master, and the same
person who had been seen that day on the palace tower in disguise.

While in the train, Mr Goodall said to Trigger,--

“There is no doubt, Tom, but that I am beset by a deadly enemy who is
trying to injure me, but what for I can’t imagine.”

“Jealousy, sir, depend upon it.”

“Of whom, or of what, Tom?”

“For your having saved that lady, sir.”

“Yes; but he must be actuated by something stronger than that, Trigger.
From what my uncle said, he must be a person from Australia, who is
said to have been in some way connected with my father in business
matters. And now I think of it, that reminds me of a word or two that
Hawksworth let drop while you were in the building with Warner.”

“There is no knowing, sir, what this spy fellow is up to, but we shall
find out before long, I’ll be bound.”

“Anyhow, Tom, I shall never rest or give up ballooning, until we do
cross his path once more.”

“I am glad to hear you say so, sir.”

“Yes, I am curious to know what has gone from the workroom--you
recollect, Trigger, there were papers there about flying, which I have
not thoroughly read yet; still, I should be sorry to lose them.”

“Do you refer to Professor Scudder’s writings, Mr Goodall?”

“Yes; though I daresay they are of an impracticable kind; at the same
time, I should not like to find that they are in the hands of our
enemies.”




CHAPTER VII

FINANCE AND FINESSE


As may have been gathered, Mr Falcon’s actions in first watching the
movements of Harry Goodall and of Miss Chain at the Crystal Palace,
and then of going to Wedwell to see Doctor Peters, were not so much
actuated by a desire to give the former a distaste for ballooning,
as to keep them away from Wedwell Hall, where the financier had been
manœuvring to entrap Squire Dove, and at the same time to lay siege to
the affections of his daughter. This kind of premeditated conduct was
not in accordance with the terms of Mr Falcon’s mission, undertaken by
him before he left Sydney--quite the reverse, indeed.

And whether the financier was irritated by the rising popularity of the
amateur aeronaut at the Crystal Palace, and retaliated by advancing
himself where Harry Goodall declined to step in, or whether Falcon was
prompted by a preconceived idea of trying to get a large slice of the
squire’s capital and entire possession of his daughter, the reader will
be fully competent to judge.

If it be assumed that the financier set out on his enterprise with the
idea of _not_ bringing Henry Goodall’s son and Miss Dove together, but
rather of stepping in himself to seek the fair lady’s hand and fortune,
then, indeed, Mr Falcon’s eccentric conduct at the Crystal Palace and
on the Essex marshes, is explained.

It would seem that at first Mr William Goodall was inclined to believe
in him, while he gave such a pathetic account of the death of his
brother Henry; but when that was ended, his flippant and ironical
remarks caused the merchant to mistrust him. Squire Dove, on the
other hand, was attracted by Mr Falcon’s monetary proposals, which
were sufficiently business-like to be accepted; but it is needless to
enter into details concerning them, as they may be supposed to have
been ostensibly sound, otherwise the squire would not have caught at
them so readily as he did by advancing a large sum in cash, and also
by not declining the financier’s overtures with respect to Miss Dove,
for after Mr Falcon’s successful start as regards his money scheme, he
came to the conclusion that his amatory advances would be accepted both
by father and daughter; he forgot, however, all about his cowardly
conduct at the lake; but Miss Dove did not, and the squire told Mr
Falcon candidly that his daughter was quite capable of exercising her
own judgment with respect to matrimonial affairs, so that he must plead
his own cause. The financier took the hint and used every means in his
power to win Miss Dove’s favour.

One day, when the squire and Doctor Peters, the village doctor, were
fishing, Mr Falcon, who was walking towards the pond with Miss Dove,
said,--

“Whenever I look at those punts on the water I am reminded of that rash
youth on the Crystal Palace lake who had the impudence to get into the
water to help to raise you into the boat. I was most annoyed, Miss
Dove, at his stupid officiousness. As far as I could make out, he was a
performer--a Palace actor or something of that kind.”

“I feel sure,” said Miss Dove, looking very straight at Mr Falcon,
“that he was a clever performer; but I was told at the Thicket Hotel
that he was a scientific man and a successful one, too,” she added. “I
certainly was vastly absorbed in his experiment.”

“Indeed! I may have been misinformed, but I quite understood that he
was not a regular Palace balloonist, but a mere experimentalist. Would
you like to know more about him, Miss Edith?” continued the financier.

“Don’t you think, Mr Falcon, that I could very easily do so, if I were
so inclined?”

“No doubt, Miss Dove; but I hope and believe that you would prefer my
acquaintanceship to his?”

“How very strangely you are talking this morning. I have no idea who or
what that gentleman is, Mr Falcon, but I do hope to see him once more,
so pray let us join my father and the doctor--and I beg you will not
talk in this strain again.”

“Ah! Miss Dove, I shall venture to speak more plainly soon, in the hope
that you will listen to me, for I--”

“Papa, dear,” cried Edith, as they drew near to the fishing party, who
were resting whilst the gamekeeper arranged some fishing rods.

After this decisive check to the financier’s love-making, he strolled
away and tried to enjoy a cigarette on the bank of the pond, while
Edith joined her father and the doctor; and very glad she was of this
opportunity of stopping the financier’s ungracious and distasteful
proposal.

Presumably Mr Falcon’s great object was to get accepted as quickly as
possible, lest some unforeseen circumstances should arise which might
upset his schemes, such as a sudden change of mind and occupation on
the part of Harry Goodall. Mr Falcon was, however, secretly prepared
with another plan to prevent Goodall from visiting the Doves, and he
intended to try it if he thought it probable that the aeronaut would
give up ballooning as a step to an introduction to Wedwell Park. And
the estate was worth fighting for--it was 300 acres in extent, well
wooded, and with a grand old mansion in the centre, surrounded by
ornamental gardens. Away towards the sea there was a good view of the
South Downs--altogether it was a charming spot.

But Edith Dove was not so easily won. She studiously declined Mr
Falcon’s attentions, although he was not a man to be easily repulsed,
for he knew that in his case there was no time to be lost.

Mr Falcon had thus far managed to keep the name of Harry Goodall in
the background, and, strange to say, Edith had never been known to
fall in love, although her father and she had many friends, including
county families and distinguished personages; but they neither of them
cared much for entertaining mere fashionable callers, although given
particularly to hospitality when men of science or women of celebrity
and worth were concerned, even if they had risen from the more humble
ranks of life.

The financier, though not a general favourite at Wedwell, found a warm
supporter in Doctor Peters, who was the family medical attendant, and
was thought by some to have been a former friend of Falcon’s, or a
relative. But the doctor, who took instinctively to the financier was
a crotchety, inquisitive old man, and wanted to find out where Falcon
was born, and to dive into family matters, which he didn’t care to
explain. Another reason why the doctor liked him was because, whilst
in Sydney, he had helped and got into a good situation a scapegrace
connection of the doctor’s.

Although the doctor and Squire Dove were so partial to fishing, the
financier did not care much for it, as he was no sportsman. Indeed,
he had admitted to the doctor that he was certainly not enamoured of
shooting, as he had been shot himself very recently, by a rascally
fellow who fired at him down in Essex.

Mr Falcon’s visit that day, to which we are alluding, was not only to
pursue his attentions to Miss Dove, but also to privately consult his
new friend the doctor, who could give him advice professionally, and
might also expedite, if asked to do so, not only a forthcoming monetary
transaction with the squire, but the doctor might advise him about
introducing to the notice of the Doves his ideas relative to a flying
machine.

When that great financial affair was satisfactorily concluded, Doctor
Peters was a witness to the squire’s payment of cash, and to the
signature of both to a deed, after which Mr Falcon went home with the
doctor, as he wished to have a confidential chat with him.

At the outset of what was mutually considered a consultation, the
financier briefly explained that he had been injured in the lumbar
regions, which affected, as he thought, his spinal cord.

On examination, Doctor Peters, who played his part admirably so far as
humouring the caprices of his patient went, found that the wound or
bruise was not quite so dangerous as it appeared to be in his patient’s
eyes, though it was not at all improbable, unless great care was
exercised, that a touch of paralysis might supervene.

“But do tell me,” said the doctor, “how it happened.”

“I was strolling about on a marsh not far from Tilbury, awaiting the
arrival of a vessel when she passed up the Thames. Just about the same
time another and a lighter craft from a different part and a higher
latitude,” he explained, enigmatically, “hove in sight. Then two
men were landed, who looked like poachers--one was certainly a very
reckless knight of the trigger, as he fired off a volley of charges in
the direction I was taking. I then felt a thud in the back, like the
kick of a horse, doctor.”

“Dear me! Very alarming, no doubt, Mr Falcon. I should say very likely
your injury was caused by a spent shot, judging from appearances,” said
the doctor, as he further examined the bruise. “Can you raise and bend
both legs with perfect ease?”

“No--not--exactly.”

“Ah! I should say it was probably a bullet from a bull-dog pistol that
overtook you, and I have no hesitation in saying that no mere dust shot
would have produced such a concussion.”

“And yet, doctor, I escaped the rascal and managed to reach a station
and to catch a train.”

“What a lucky escape to be sure!”

“It was; but I felt I was hit near the spine, and in the leg as well,
for I began to limp as I do now.”

“Ay, we must get rid of that. Now, I’ll tell you what you must do. I
shall provide you with ointment, pills, draught and what not, besides a
little pick-me-up restorative, and then you must go to your hotel for a
few days and rest, and you must get that smart, little valet of yours
to rub your back and to look well after you.”

“But I can’t do that, for unfortunately Eben Croft is down himself and
cannot get out. He is positively pining for my assistance. However, you
must be good enough to accept this bank-note for your advice and these
ample remedies. Now I wish to speak to you on another subject, and
that, of course, will require another refresher in the way of a fee,”
said Falcon, who evidently meant to ingratiate himself with Doctor
Peters, and then turn him to account respecting more points than one.

“No, no,” cried the doctor, rejecting the further fee, “enough is as
good as a feast.”

“You must oblige, doctor, for I feel that you are my best friend in
these parts, and that you will advance my suit and prospects here as
much as you can.”

“Pray say no more, Mr Falcon. After this assurance you may implicitly
rely upon my giving you not only medical but friendly advice. In short,
I feel myself, by some extraordinary fascinating power on your part, to
be drawn to you, and I cannot forget that you did my relative a good
turn in Sydney, and I shall consider it a duty to espouse your cause
here, as long as I find it to be, as I do now, straight and honourable.
But do tell me how goes it with Miss Edith? She is one of the purest
and most unsophisticated creatures in the world, and you know her
pecuniary value, I daresay,” said the doctor, with a chuckle.

“Yes, yes, I am pretty well versed on that point, for our lamented
friend, Henry Goodall of Sydney, whom you have seen and talked to, I
believe, acquainted me with everything concerning the Doves before I
undertook to--”

“Before you undertook to court and carry off Miss Dove,” interrupted
the doctor.

“I did not imply as much as that, doctor, for there was no
understanding between us of that kind I assure you. However, you may
assume that love has cropped up, on my side at anyrate, ever since my
arrival.”

“I can very well understand your feelings, Mr Falcon.”

“Scarcely, I think--for mine have been an unthought of outburst of
admiration, and I may say, of affection, for Miss Dove--which--”

“My dear sir, is it worth while to analyse all our secret springs of
action, as you and I seem to grasp them by a sort of intuition, which
is common to both of us, I should say?”

“Good, and altogether far-seeing of you, doctor! And I quite agree with
you, but still I am not carrying the position in such a dashing style
as I expected. Of course, you know that the squire, so far as he is
concerned, approves of my open and honourable conduct?”

“He could not fail to do that, Mr Falcon; but why are you rubbing your
eyes so vigorously?”

“Eh! was I? I am not piping my eye for fear of failure, if that is what
you are inferring, doctor. The fact is my sight has been unduly tried
lately. I took to spectacles for a short spell.”

“More’s the pity. Just let me look into your eyes, Mr Falcon.”

“Do, doctor.”

“Your eyes are as sound as your heart, my dear sir.”

“Nothing wrong there, you think?”

“Not that I can detect at present; but mind that you never let Edith
Dove see you with blinkers on.”

“Leave me alone for that. Those I wore on trial proved dangerous.”

“Really--you are a young man and ought not to have tried them.”

“A young man, eh? I was just thinking of my young man Croft, and that I
must be going; but stay--I think I heard a rap at your front door.”

“Perhaps so, I’ll inquire. Now Maria, what is it?” asked the doctor of
a neat little servant.

“If you please, sir, the gentleman is wanted.”

“I really cannot stay to see anyone,” said Mr Falcon.

“What name was given, Maria?” asked the doctor.

“Warner, sir.”

“I’ve heard that name,” said Mr Falcon, who motioned to his friend to
shut the door--“but perhaps you would kindly see him for me, doctor?”

“Look here, Maria,” said the doctor in a more subdued tone, “was my
patient asked for?”

“No, sir; the man only said he called respecting Eben Croft.”

“Confound him!” muttered Falcon. “I am not angry with you, Maria,”
he said, turning to the girl, who looked rather scared; “here is
half-a-crown for you. I am annoyed by the intrusion just as I was in
conversation with your master.”

“I didn’t say who was upstairs, sir.”

“Quite right, Maria,” said the doctor. “Suppose you keep Mr Warner
waiting for a few minutes, and then show him up.”

“Very good, sir,” said Maria.

“And where am I to disappear to, doctor?” anxiously asked his patient.

“Step into my skeleton case, Mr Falcon, if you are not too squeamish.
It’s quite empty, as the tenant’s bones were removed last week for
fresh articulation; they were dropping all to pieces.”

“All right! Here’s in, anyhow, and if I scratch my finger-nail gently
on the inside of the door, you will know that you are saying what I
don’t like; but as long as I keep quiet you can go ahead, doctor; you
understand?”

“Thoroughly. I have unlimited discretionary power unless you scratch
with your finger-nail.”

Doctor Peters having almost closed the door of case, and hearing
footsteps, cried out,--

“Come in, Mr Warner, I am at your service.”

“I must ask your pardon for intruding, doctor. I was directed to your
house, but I’m afraid it is a wild-goose chase, as I merely want to
see a gentleman I fancy I have met before; but as he seems to have
disappeared, I suppose I must tell you that a young man named Eben, or
Ebenezer Croft, has referred me to his master, who was said to be on a
visit at Wedwell Park. This man Croft has got into trouble, sir, and
will have to go before a magistrate.”

“What for, pray?”

“For trespassing on the company’s private premises at the Crystal
Palace, sir.”

“What a paltry charge, Mr Warner! I may possibly mention the case to
Squire Dove, who is a Justice of the Peace, and acquainted, I know,
with some of the most influential directors and shareholders of the
palace. The squire will no doubt see that the case is thoroughly looked
into, even if it comes to an exposure in the _Times_. Yes, sir,”
continued the doctor, “this farcical seizure of poor little Croft, who
is a gentleman’s servant, will no doubt make a great stir and keep
people from visiting the palace, lest they step accidently from public
to private rooms, which most likely join each other.”

“Something more will come out about the premises that have been
entered,” said Warner, “as they belong to a scientific gentleman,
whose friends are, I believe, acquainted with Squire Dove.” (A loudish
scratch).

“May be, Mr Warner; Croft has only committed a pardonable mistake--but
if bail is required it will be forthcoming.” (A whisper from the case,
“Shut up!”)

“The truth is, Doctor Peters, that Croft is locked up, and he fears
that his master is in the same predicament.”

“My good man, what nonsense!” cried the doctor.

“Nonsense you may think it. However, I am merely doing my duty in
making inquiries; but don’t you suppose that I am a fool, sir.”

“You are far from that, I’m sure; but allow me, Warner, to present you
with this,” replied the doctor, putting his finger and thumb into his
waistcoat pocket.

“No, thank you, sir; I am neither to be bought, sold nor humbugged,
and I’ll wish you good-day;” and the man took up his hat and departed
angrily.

Whilst Warner was walking away down a bye lane, he met a good-natured
looking young person, whose face seemed familiar to him.

“What, Lucy!” he exclaimed; “is that you, miss? How pleased I am to see
you.”

“Yes, Lucy is my name, it’s true; but surely I have seen you at the
Crystal Palace?”

“Certainly you have--at Mr Goodall’s workroom, when I was chatting with
Tom Trigger after Miss Chain had been frightened by that spy who is not
so very far off, unless I’m much mistaken, Miss Lucy.”

“Oh, do come into the gamekeeper’s cottage with me; I am going to see
Bennet.”

“Ay, come in and welcome,” said the gamekeeper, who was standing at
his garden gate. “Did I hear you say that you know Tom Trigger?”

“Yes, I know Tom, and like him very much.”

“So do I,” replied the gamekeeper, “and I found him a good shot, too,
when he came down with Lucy.”

“Nothing amiss with Tom?” asked Lucy, earnestly.

“Oh dear no, and never will be, my dear,” said Warner. “Don’t you fear.
It is that little audacious chap Croft I came about.”

“Are you going back by the next or the last train?” asked Bennet.

“By the next; I must if possible,” replied Warner.

“Then make haste, missus,” said Bennet, turning to his wife, “and get
us a cup of tea. I’m going over to the station and will give you a
lift,” he said to Warner, “and we can go on with our chat on the road.”

The snug little tea-party had barely sat down when Mrs Bennet heard a
knock at the door, and then in came Saunders, the cook, from the house,
who had been sent down by Miss Dove with her customary basket of odds
and ends, but she did not know that Lucy and a stranger were there.

When Saunders was introduced to Warner, she exclaimed,--

“Bless me, I ought to know that name; and now I look at you-- But don’t
you know me, Simon?”

“Why, goodness me! it’s surely never Miss Saunders?”

“The same, sir, as I was when I knew you in Sydenham. You thought at
that time of entering the force.”

“Yes; and so I did. How glad I am to see you again.”

After some further chatting over old times, Saunders remembered the
dinner she had to cook, and rose to leave.

“It’s about time we were moving too,” said Bennet to Warner, “that is,
if you must catch the next train.”

“Yes, I really must,” said Warner, getting up and shaking hands with
them all and saying that he hoped to pay them another visit some day.

“Give my love to Tom,” cried Lucy to Warner, as he jumped up beside
Bennet in the cart, “and tell him to try and come and see me soon
again,” she added, as they disappeared down the lane.




CHAPTER VIII

MR FALCON ON FLIGHT


While the financier was considering whether he should leave Doctor
Peters at once or wait, so as to avoid getting in contact with Warner,
it occurred to him that he might stay a while and sound his adviser
as to the other scheme he had been thinking about ever since Eben
Croft purloined from Mr Goodall’s workroom a treatise on “Flight” by
Professor Scudder.

The possession of this manuscript by Mr Falcon, induced him to decide
upon utilising the suggestions therein contained, for he had not
forgotten the discomfiture he met with on the Crystal Palace lake, and
he longed for an opportunity of surpassing the air-ship performance of
Harry Goodall, which made such a favourable impression on Miss Dove
before the amateur aeronaut rescued her from a watery grave. Thus
animated with entirely new notions, the financier requested Doctor
Peters to listen while he explained a scheme by which he hoped further
to raise himself in the estimation of Squire Dove and his daughter.

The doctor at first felt disinclined to devote any time and attention
to the affairs of his visitor, and he was on the point of saying “Shut
up” (as Mr Falcon had done when he whispered from the skeleton case).
The doctor, however, still mindful of the financier’s liberal fees,
consented to hear what he had to say, but begged that Mr Falcon would
be concise, as he was not disposed to go into scientific arguments
or a lengthy preamble, nor could he listen to profound calculations.
“For you must not forget, Mr Falcon,” he said, “that in Surgery and
Pathology we dislike complications,” and he knew that figures could be
easily made to embarrass the uninitiated and to deceive scientists as
well. “So do unfold your wings, tail and what not with simplicity of
diction.”

“You may rely on my doing that, doctor, but first let me inform you
that I have not long since visited a noted tower in which a valuable
work on flying was deposited, and it was there that my servant Eben
Croft dropped into the storeroom, where he picked up a rare and
original manuscript on ‘Flight,’ by Professor Scudder.”

“And this, I suppose, Mr Falcon, has taken a firm hold of your mind?”

“Exactly, doctor--after I had obtained a firm hold of the book. Then
I went deeply into the subject, but I had thought about the matter
previously.”

“Indeed, Mr Falcon, I was not aware of that. Maybe it was after you had
studied and appropriated some of Scudder’s notions?”

“Mind, Peters, what you are insinuating.”

“Quite so! I merely say and mean that you, as a man of action, felt
called upon to give life, energy and force to Scudder’s proposals,
having most likely modified and improved his early conceptions.”

“Well, there’s something in the way you now put it, doctor, for it is
unquestionable that my own views present a more attractive programme,
if I may use the term, than Scudder’s did.”

“And who the dickens is Scudder, pray?”

“Scudder himself hails from Holland.”

“Ay, he is the veritable Flying Dutchman, no doubt; but is he a man of
aeronautical experience, Mr Falcon?”

“Not so much as I am, doctor.”

“Indeed! Where have you matriculated?”

“I have devoted considerable attention to the movements and acts of a
clever balloonist.”

“What! you have, Mr Falcon?”

“Yes, but that is strictly confidential, and I want it to go no
further, please.”

“Say no more, Mr Falcon, on that head, but at once propound your
theory, for I am curious to hear why you have two strings to your bow.”

“Eh? What is that you say about my bow?”

“I was adverting to your contemplating ‘Flight,’ while you have so
great an attractive power in Miss Dove. Couldn’t you remain within the
sphere of her influence?”

“Of course I could; but aren’t you a bit wandering yourself, doctor?
You spoke of my having two strings to my bow.”

“What I meant was, that as a financial suitor you pose well, but as a
flying man you would not, I think, appear to advantage.”

“Would it surprise you to hear, doctor, that Miss Dove has a taste for
aerial exploration?”

“Oh, nonsense, my dear sir. Surely I ought to know more about that than
you. However, tell me more of your flying machine ideas.”

“You must know then, doctor, that the main-spring of it consists of a
huge steel bow, and I thought you might have heard something of this
when you alluded to my having two strings to my bow.”

“No; I have heard nothing whatever of your plans, but never mind about
the two strings, Mr Falcon, so that you stick to one bow.”

“You may be sure I shall do that, for it is by this power I shall be
able to ascend.”

“What do you mean, Mr Falcon?”

“To be more explicit, doctor, I shall first pass into space through the
instrumentality of an enormous cross-bow.”

“Then you will be the arrow?”

“Yes, and will face the inevitable like a bird.”

“Ay, like a Falcon, you might have said.”

“Mind, doctor, what use you make of an unsullied name.”

“I shall do it no harm if you don’t yourself, sir; but say what you
like, Mr Falcon, I don’t believe you will ever fly unless you have a
limb of the law at your heels.”

“Your candid opinion is not very encouraging, doctor, but it will not
discourage me from enlightening your darkness.”

“Yes, I want more light as to your flighty ideas, for I am no air
explorer and have never even been up the City Monument, or the Crystal
Palace towers. Have you, Mr Falcon?”

“Many a time and oft, doctor. Why, it was at the palace tower where I
came across Scudder’s book.”

“Was it really? Do go on then, though I fear this flying fad will
bewilder you before you chuck it up.”

“Hear me out, doctor.”

“By all means, for I fail to see how you are going to do it.”

“I am not going to imitate the tactics of previous sky soarers, but I
do hold with Scudder as to a good dashing start.”

“You won’t dash into a horse pond, a limekiln, or a railway train, I
trust.”

“No fear, doctor. With my first spring I shall be hurled clear of all
such impediments.”

“You say hurled, Mr Falcon. Why, you almost take my breath away.”

“That is because you lack imagination, doctor, or you would picture to
yourself my contrivance in full swing on the lawn in front of Wedwell
Hall.”

“God forbid that I should witness such a scene!”

“Simply because you fail, Peters, to see in your mind’s eye the merit
of the invention. Can’t you imagine an enormous cross-bow, with two
large grooves in the stock for the air-ship to slide up when the bow is
bent and the trigger pulled?”

“No, I don’t see it.”

“You will presently when I further explain that these grooves will be
three feet apart, and that the car or sledge of the air-craft will
slide up these grooves, as two half round pieces of wood will be
fastened at the bottom of the sledge. Of course the wire cord of the
great steel bow will be drawn down and fixed behind the air machine
before the trigger is pulled.”

“And how long after this bit of trigger-nometry do you expect to be
alive, man?”

“Oh, that will be all right; you will see soon how the thing will work.”

“Never, I fear.”

“Well, I’ll try to make you, anyhow; and don’t forget, doctor, that the
craft or cruiser (call it which you like) will narrow at the stem.”

“What for, Mr Falcon?”

“What for? Why, to cleave the air like a thing of life, so that when
the wings are opened out by touching a lever then the pace will be
prodigious, though, at first, the machine will have the wings closed up
like the arms of a diver before he springs, but once away I should go
clean over Wedwell Park.”

“Yes, yes, provided you got over the squire and the Hall.”

“Hear me out, doctor, while I tell you that the great cross-bow stock
will be raised on blocks to an angle of 25 degrees, in order that my
first leap into space should shoot me clear of the housetops until my
wings opened for practical work.”

“Why, man, you would go like a projectile, and, to my thinking, you
would be launched into eternity.”

“Should I really. You’re wrong there, Peters; only think how divers
sometimes drop from great heights and then turn up safely like corks.”

“But your turn up, Mr Falcon, according to your own account, would
last for more than a few seconds, and in that time your senses (or what
was left of them) would be whisked out of you in a jiffy.”

“You forget, doctor, that when I reached the park boundaries I should
slow down a bit and bring into use my motive power, for without that, I
should drop by the run.”

“Just like De Groof did, Mr Falcon, when he was killed at Chelsea over
twenty years ago.”

“That poor man was not kept moving on. He wanted propelling, or some
other force, as I shall employ.”

“You don’t mean police force, possibly?”

“No, something stronger than that, or electricity either.”

“Compressed air, perhaps?”

“You must excuse me stating my power, doctor, for to a man of your
sensitive nature it might sound alarming.”

After a moment’s hesitation, Mr Falcon lifted his hand and struck the
table so violently that he made a wine glass jump until it fell and was
smashed on the carpet. He then said without the least apology,--

“My driving power, doctor, will be worked by an explosive!”

“An explosive! I hope it won’t blow you to atoms like the pieces of
glass around us.”

“No fear, Peters; I am free, however, to admit that a succession of
explosions will produce a rocket-like movement. But you will excuse me,
won’t you, for not naming the chemical compound employed?”

“Don’t you worry about that, Mr Falcon. I am quite convinced as to the
violent nature of it, and I won’t press you for a further exposition
of your new motive power; indeed, I perceive that, at the outset, you
will go up (unless you funk it) like a live military shell or rocket.
Secondly, that you will have folding wings to your craft; and thirdly,
that by the aid of explosive materials, you will set these in motion,
so that you can flap, sail, whirl or swoop.”

“Never mind the swooping, doctor; that might be resorted to in a
desperate emergency.”

“Yes, in the last scene of a closing act, I guess.”

“Don’t you be so jocular and ironical, doctor. You have done me one
good turn, and I want you to do another by taking this fresh matter up
warmly, and further by introducing it to the Doves.”

“Not I, Mr Falcon. For my part I shall drop it from this moment
like a hot cinder, and I strongly recommend you to do the same, and
to concentrate your attentions on Miss Dove simply as a financial
projector rather than as a man of flight.”

“Well, I do believe, doctor, that you advise me as a true friend, and
I will not attempt even a preliminary canter in the park before I have
tried an experiment elsewhere.”

“Don’t try to fly, but go at once to Sydenham, Mr Falcon, and see that
Eben Croft is set free from durance vile.”

“A bright idea, doctor, and a very suggestive one, too; and, for your
concluding hint, I thank you very much, and I promise faithfully to
turn it to account.”




CHAPTER IX

A FLIGHTY FIASCO


After following the advice of Doctor Peters by liberating Eben Croft,
Mr Falcon determined that he would forthwith turn him to another useful
account, as the financier had decided to test Scudder’s scheme if the
Pocket Hercules would assist him to do so,--though, in consideration of
the objections raised by his adviser Peters, Mr Falcon thought it would
be quite as well if he abstained himself from going aloft, should Croft
agree to do so and assume the Dutchman’s name.

An immediate proposal was therefore made to Professor Scudder, who soon
replied favourably from Rotterdam, in fact he consented to sell his
stolen manuscript and invention for the round sum down of one hundred
pounds sterling, and these terms, having been arranged, Eben Croft was
duly informed that there was one more chance open to him if he really
wished to hand down his name to posterity, after which he could see
about settling in his promised “pub” near Wedwell Park, but not until
his master had united himself in the bonds of matrimony to the squire’s
daughter.

Eben having agreed, Falcon promised to remunerate him handsomely if
he would assume the _rôle_ of Scudder and make the first trial of the
flying machine (of course in disguise, so that no one would know him).
As to Mr Falcon, he would pose as a distinguished Dutch director, and
would arrange everything at some quiet place where the experiment could
come off under the strictest privacy; but the chosen spot would not
have to be very far from Wedwell Park in case the wind happened to
waft the aerial cruiser that way,--in which case Mr Falcon might like
himself to make the flight personally,--but that would not interfere
with the stipulated payment to Eben Croft. The entire apparatus,
including Scudder’s giant cross-bow, was very soon the property of
the flying financier, but, unfortunately, there was a debt on it of
fifty ducats,--which had to be cleared off before the contrivance was
despatched from Rotterdam.

A suitable place at Haywards Heath was at length hired by the
financier, and the flying machine, with cross-bow, appurtenances and
propellers, were to be sent by goods train to the Sussex Station,
where, in expectation of their arrival, Mr Falcon and Eben Croft duly
presented themselves in costume that would defy detection.

A number of workmen, under the superintendence of a master carpenter,
had been engaged at the quiet retreat selected, which, by the way, was
not far from the lunatic asylum in the neighbourhood of Haywards Heath,
when Croft, in a semi-clerical attire, assisted his master to make the
preliminary arrangements;--then Eben said,--

“Where shall I find the tackle, sir?”

“At the Haywards Heath Goods Station, Eben.”

“Is it to be a public or private affair?”

“As secret and secluded as possible. Not a soul must know who or what
I am aiming at, Croft, for this flying machine is to go into Wedwell
Park if you can so manage it, and if I were certain about its doing so
I might occupy the seat of honour myself.”

“Where is Wedwell, sir, from our present standpoint?”

“Yonder; but keep everything dark, Eben. We must say as little as we
can, and that in broken English, with a strong Dutch accent. Do you
understand?”

“Yah, yah, mynheer; but some of your helps are coming. I had better get
to work directly the boss gets here with the traps.”

“You have seen, Eben, all Scudder’s sketches and know the plan of the
invention. Say as little as need be, and make the most of the time
present.”

“Yes, for it would never do, sir, for Jack Hawksworth or Simon Warner
to catch us at this job.”

“No, Eben, nor for Doctor Peters or the squire to cast eyes upon us.”

“They wouldn’t know us, I’m thinking, Mr F.”

“The doctor might recognise and denounce the contrivance. That is why I
have drawn you aside to speak in confidence, and to say, ‘Hurry on; get
the job over and let us clear out with all speed.’”

Before the experimentalists had taken up their position in the small
grounds which had been hired for the occasion, Mr Falcon had given
out that two foreigners were about to try a new projectile, and as an
explosive machine would be employed, no spectators would be admitted
near the apparatus nor inside the premises on any pretext whatsoever;
neither would admittance to the enclosed retreat be allowed even on
payment of gate money.

But no sooner had the proceedings got fairly forward and the large
steel bow and stock appeared in the distance, than the outsiders
conjectured that the foreign visitors were certainly about to try the
working of a new sort of guillotine for the beheading of anarchists and
other criminals. The ominous sounds that had been heard by carpenters
and the workmen encouraged this conclusion, and when the twisted
wire of the bow was strained tight behind the air-craft, and it was
made to perform a preliminary move up and down the two grooves in
the bow-stock, then many persons broke into the grounds, much to the
annoyance of the tall, distinguished-looking Dutchman who was at work
conjointly with a London firework manufacturer, both of whom were in
the act of charging a double-barrelled explosive machine--this was
intended to act as an additional motor power to the professor’s aerial
cruise after the first spring into the air, produced by the cross-bow,
had ceased to act.

Eben Croft, who was supposed by all present, with the exception of his
principal, Mr Falcon, to be the redoubtable Scudder, was well to the
fore, and had fearlessly mounted the seat of the air-ship, when he was
asked by one of the local magnates if he required any assistance.

Thereupon, the supposed Scudder, who seemed reluctant to air his
Dutch or broken English, pointed towards his chief and tried to catch
his attention, but the crowd had so surrounded Mr Falcon, that the
attentive interrogator asked if the professor was wanting the Dutch
gentleman with the long black beard.

“Yah, yah, mynheer,” replied Eben. “Vil you tell de herr dat I vant
mine propellers?”

“Come on, Herr What’s-your-name,” cried the master carpenter to
Falcon, not knowing his name--when suddenly and unexpectedly a
terrific explosion took place, which hurled Mr Falcon, the firework
maker and others into an adjacent pond, into which the burly Dutchman
went head foremost and lost his big beard and curly locks; in fact
his hairy adornments were floating on the water, and had he been the
sole sufferer there would have been a scene of laughter as well as of
commotion, but several townsmen and strangers were injured besides the
dark, stout fellow (Falcon), who, on being dragged on to land, seemed
strangely transmogrified until some kind friend re-adjusted him, when
he appeared to have lost his head, for he sung out to the professor in
clear English,--

“For Heaven’s sake, Eben, get your power and start at once. Your wings
are attached, and you’ve an open country before you. Make a short spin
at all risks.”

“Pull that trigger, master carpenter,” cried the supposed Scudder, in
downright, plain, unbroken English.

The carpenter and all the people within earshot were bewildered,
and thought they were going to be hoaxed, but up rushed the wild,
half-crazy Falcon and pulled furiously at the line, when away went
Scudder like a bolt out of a forty-pounder, his hat and coat-tails
flying behind him; but he had the presence of mind to let loose, by
touching a lever, his wings, which flew open in time to give him a
check just as he turned downwards, for all the world as if he were
making for the lunatic asylum.

“He’ll pitch into yonder trees, mark my word if he doesn’t,” cried
Falcon, as if that curve was designed to be the extent of his voyage.

“Ah, he’s a dead man,” cried the master carpenter, “though a pluct ’un,
and no mistake!”

“Yes, there he goes into that clump of lofty trees like a heron to his
nest,” said a workman.

“On to his rescue, men,” cried some gentlemen of position. Then the
grounds were soon vacated after the professor had smashed through the
upper leaves and broken the framework of his wings.

Falcon noticed that he held up his arms and waved them as a signal of
safety, but some of the bystanders protested that he was knocked all
to pieces, a result which Falcon and the master carpenter disbelieved,
seeing that he took the tree tops as if it was the only suitable place
upon which to alight, in order to save himself and the air-ship, though
Eben’s master could see that it was by extraordinary good luck he did
not dash into the asylum yard, which was not very far off, and which
might have killed him outright.

Scudder, who had well enacted his part, was so embedded in the leaves
and boughs, that ladders had to be procured before any assistance could
be rendered, but as the foreman of the carpenters ran back to say that
Scudder was not killed, only scratched a bit, Mr Falcon affected to
feel somewhat restored, though he was quite unable to go with the mob
to see about Scudder’s landing.

“Still,” said Falcon to the master carpenter, “I must return
immediately to London and report the success of the first flight under
such extreme disadvantages.”

“And are you,” said the tradesman, “going to take to flight yourself?
Who then is to settle up with me?”

“I will,” cried Falcon, “as soon as you like; that is, if you will help
us to get away by the next train.”

“I’m afraid you won’t do that, but there is one due in an hour and
a half. At the same time, if you will go to my house and dry your
clothes and settle the little account, my foreman shall see about your
Professor Scudder, as you call him, and very aptly so, too, I think.”

Mr Falcon, finding that the master carpenter was resolved to stick to
him, and that his foreman was instructed by signs and whispers not to
lose sight of the little man, requested that Eben’s hat be restored to
him with his other garments, which were picked up and found to be quite
safe. Then Herr What’s-his-name, or, in plainer and more direct terms,
Mr Falcon, saw the policy of assenting to all that had been proposed,
and was truly glad to think that he would have so good a chance of
leaving before any interference on the part of the local authorities
or police had been ordered.

“Mind you,” added his counsellor, “if you want to avoid being
questioned and perhaps detained for attempted homicide, or anything
that might lead to further inquiry, you take my advice and leave by the
next train.”

Seeing what a fix they might soon get in, Mr Falcon forthwith went to
the master carpenter’s house, changed and dried his clothes, paid his
bill, arranged that Eben Croft was to be brought to him from where
he was and then the financier made fresh terms for getting all his
traps together and paid for their carriage up to goodness knows where,
no matter what state they might be in, and if the carpenter and his
foreman would undertake to dispatch them with expedition, Falcon would
pay extra, and handsomely, too.

This business-like offer had the desired effect, every man employed
worked with a will. The tackle, much shattered, was taken down in
a van. Scudder had his scratches and wounds seen to, and they just
cleared out from the railway station when one or two plain clothes
officers began inquiring about the health and residence of the
foreigners, but the train was in motion, and the flying financier and
his confederate were off before they were formally interviewed by the
police, who rather winked at their escape, as they had caused no end
of stir and amusement even among the demented sightseers, one of whom
thought that the crazy man of flight was about to join them, as he was
himself seemingly under the influence of a lunar complaint.




CHAPTER X

CAPTAIN LINK’S APPEARANCE


While Mr Falcon had been scheming in Sussex, Harry Goodall, on
returning to the Crystal Palace, found that as his first ascent had
proved such a great success, he would immediately try to guard against
public gossip respecting the diabolical attempt which had been made to
damage his balloon, in case the palace authorities might be induced to
stop any further experiments.

Unquestionably, the erratic visits of the mysterious spy and his little
satellite showed that the delinquent on the Essex marsh, the “shadow
man” and the man on the North Tower with Eben Croft, were one and the
same. The aeronaut felt sure that if these men were seen to be dogging
his footsteps, the palace directors would not feel disposed to allow
another aerial trip.

Tom Trigger and his master had well considered what had taken place,
and Miss Chain and her mother were duly cautioned against alluding
to the suspicious strangers, and were also requested not to tell
Hawksworth the detective anything that had taken place.

On thinking over the matter, it then had occurred to Trigger that he
had seen someone very like Ebenezer Croft at the place where Lucy was
in service, and he had mentioned this to Warner, who was sent down by
the palace police inspector to pick up what information he could at
Wedwell Park, the results of which were given in Chapter VII., and
which led to the discharge of Croft as a matter of expediency; so that,
notwithstanding the disparaging remarks of Hawksworth, Warner had
obtained something like a clue or two and had turned them to a good
account, after he left Wedwell.

On Harry Goodall’s next visit to the Crystal Palace, it was found that
little damage had been done to the workroom stores, beyond the theft
of a paper on “Flight.” This trifling plunder was doubtless owing to
Warner’s watchfulness, who, in his quiet, unpretending manner was
always on the alert.

There being nothing, therefore, to prevent the making of a second
ascent, the aeronaut was determined to proceed with it forthwith, so
that not more than a fortnight elapsed before the balloon was again
brought out for inflation; and as the former trial trip had created
such general admiration, the manager quite regretted that these aerial
exploitings were to be made without public announcement. There was,
however, no moving the amateur from his decision. He had so little of
the showman in his composition that he did not care for spectators of
his skill, though he was ready to study the gratification of those who
honoured him with their presence, and this he considered to be a proper
return for the advantages afforded him at such an admirable spot for
ballooning, as the palace proved to be.

While preparations were being made in the glass-room, a gentleman
presented himself, not a “shadow man” or Tower sneak this time, but
a welcome guest. He was no other than Captain Link, who had seen his
young friend’s balloon when it passed over the _Neptune_ as she was
going up the Thames, and who now came to have a chat with Harry, not
only on his own account, but as the representative of Mr William
Goodall, who believed that the straightforward, outspoken seaman would
do more to convert his nephew than the Quixotic performances of Mr
Falcon, of whom the merchant had formed an unfavourable opinion.

Captain Link suggested that whilst Tom Trigger and a gang of the palace
gardeners were making arrangements for the filling, that he and Harry
should take a turn round the gardens, and have a cigar together.

“I want to know, Link,” said the delighted aeronaut, “if my uncle saw
the balloon as we crossed your mast heads?”

“Of course he did, long before you recognised us, which I suppose you
did; but he was depressed about a matter which has been troubling
us, and just as the tug’s black smoke rose up to you, I gave him a
letter to read which I had in my pocket, and it brightened him up
considerably. However, I was requested not to say anything to you
about family matters. Your uncle said that I was to be strictly silent
on that point, for he felt sure that nothing I could say would stop
you from accomplishing whatever you had engaged to do, so for to-day,
Harry, we won’t allude to anything but your favourite ballooning,
please, and your proposed companions, of whom I am curious to hear
something, if you have no objection. I was told before I spoke to you
that you were going to ascend this afternoon.”

“Yes; stay and join me, Link.”

“What do you mean, Harry?”

“Well, join me at luncheon and see me off; I shall rely upon your doing
that much, at anyrate, and perhaps more, eh?”

“Very pleased, but I must tell you candidly that your uncle is still
dead set against ballooning; however, he thinks that you should not
break faith here with the palace people, although he did ask me to try
and persuade you not to continue your ascents after to-day, as a Mr
Falcon is making a mess of his mission to you.”

“I was not aware that anyone had been here in the character of
a missionary. The only persons I have noticed are two downright
scoundrels who have been hanging about and haunting me, if I may use
the expression, and not only me, but also Miss Chain and her mother,
two ladies who are assisting me in my work, and who are really above
this kind of thing. You noticed Miss Chain, probably?”

“Do you mean that demure and lady-like girl I saw at needlework,
sitting near that smart-looking man?”

“Yes, I do, Link; but I must give him the cold shoulder, as he is
becoming a nuisance, and is a detective, I hear. The Chains are most
industrious, but were robbed of all they possessed by an unprincipled
financier.”

“What a shame! If this young lady is a sample of your employees, I am
agreeably surprised, Harry, for they were described to your uncle as
being very different kind of people to this specimen I happen to have
seen. Couldn’t something be done for such a lady-like girl?”

“I have been thinking on that point myself; the poor girl has been
terribly bothered by an inquisitive fellow, who has made himself most
obnoxious. By the way, he is a fine, aristocratic-looking man, not
unlike you in build, Link, but he has such an evil expression of face,
whilst you have a good one--but I must not flatter you.”

“No, pray don’t descend to that, Goodall.”

“Situated, however, as I am, Link, I cannot very well raise a complaint
here to the manager, but I am all ready for the fellow if he should
show up again, and we fortunately have an obliging but humble-minded
policeman on the lookout. I don’t mean that fussy, amateurish
detective, but a quiet, practical man, who has already made an example
of one fellow. His name is Warner, and look here, Link, if you can
find an opportunity of having a word or two with the Chains, I should
appreciate the attention, as they have been so much traduced to my
Uncle Goodall.”

“All right, Harry, and I have made up my mind to stay and see who goes
up, as I should like to be able to speak as I find of your associates.”

“As to those going up--Miss Chain will accompany me for one, and
my assistant, Trigger. I promised the young lady a trip for her
indefatigable work and general assistance.”

“Don’t tell me any more of this prodigy, Harry. Remember that I am a
bachelor and a sailor,” said the captain, laughing heartily.

“I don’t forget that, old friend, but I want you to know that Miss
Chain is a much-maligned young lady; she and her mother were in a state
of downright want when Tom Trigger introduced them to me.”

“And you will never regret having done them a good turn, and now that
I am reminded of your sterling qualities, Harry, I really must tell
you something your uncle asked me last evening. He wanted to know if I
could bring you to think more about commercial and matrimonial affairs.”

“Oh, yes, I know very well what he and my father want me to do, but I
don’t see it at present.”

“I told him that I didn’t much care about speaking to you on such
subjects, and that I was more likely to be converted by you, as I had
always had a desire to go up in a balloon.”

“And what did my uncle say to that, Link?”

“He said he didn’t mind what I did, even if I took you to sea with me,
so long as I led you out of the way of ballooning.”

“And suppose that I lead you away into the upper regions over land and
sea, what would my uncle say then?”

“Why, I should lose my character and my ship, too, very likely,”
replied Link, with consternation plainly written on his face.

“Not you, captain; you’ve too much mettle in you to be cast aside for
preaching to me in cloudland.”

“By Jove! I never thought of that idea, Harry--I mean as a reason for
going up.”

“How do you know, Link, what experiment I am going to try this very
day?”

“I don’t, and that’s a fact.”

“Can you answer this question, Link? Where are marriages made?”

“Up aloft, they say.”

“Then how do you know that I am not going aloft, with you, for all I
know, to invoke Cupid’s aid as to the knotty matrimonial problem?” said
Harry, jokingly.

“I don’t profess to understand your lofty intentions, Goodall; they
present such a romantic and fascinating aspect that I must agree to
join you in testing them--if you will give me a lift up for that
purpose; but you are solely responsible, mind, for raising such a
spirit of inquiry.”

“There, for goodness’ sake, Link, let us stop joking. Here comes Miss
Chain. I expect she has something to say to me about ascending.”

“Do introduce me, Goodall. I saw her coming before you did, and also
that detective party who is not far astern of Miss Chain--perhaps he is
her admirer.”

“Can’t fail to be that, Link; but just now Hawksworth is looking at a
photograph, and now he is looking at us.”

“So he is. Perhaps he is wondering who I am. He is sheering off
now--but who is this trying to catch your eye on the other side, Harry?”

“Oh, that’s Warner; he comes from the palace, where I am wanted, most
likely. However, I will introduce you to the young lady.--Miss Chain,
may I introduce to you an old friend of mine, Captain Link?” added
Harry, as she came up to speak to him.

“I feel it a great honour, Captain Link, to become acquainted with a
friend of my esteemed employer,” said Miss Chain.

“I shall have to leave you, Link, for a short time,” said Mr Goodall,
“as the general manager wishes to see me. You will be back in time to
ascend, Miss Chain?”

“I shall not be gone long, Mr Goodall,” was the reply.

Captain Link strolled on with Miss Chain, listening with delight to her
conversation, and did not observe that they had passed the turnstiles
and were going down the Anerley Road, towards where Mrs Chain lived.
Presently, when close to the Thicket Hotel, they noticed two men coming
towards them, whom Miss Chain at once recognised as her tormentors,
and, strange to say, their faces seemed also familiar to Captain Link.
This coincidence puzzled the young lady greatly, as she had thought
at first that there was some personal resemblance between the taller
one and her escort. When the men caught sight of Captain Link, they
hurried away, much to his annoyance, as he wished that they had stopped
long enough for him to remember their names and where he had seen them
before.

Whilst talking on this subject, Miss Chain observed her mother, who was
on the lookout for her return, and wished that Captain Link would say
good-bye; but in that respect she was disappointed, as he presently
remarked that he should very much like to be introduced to Mrs Chain,
and after that he would go to the Thicket Hotel and try to find out who
those men were, and would return in half an hour’s time to walk back to
the palace with Miss Chain and her mother, if agreeable to them.

On this understanding, Captain Link exchanged a few words with Mrs
Chain and then went on to the hotel, where he met Warner, who had
himself been looking for the two spies, as there had been a police
rumour that Hawksworth was expecting the arrival of some such men, and
Warner inferred that they had actually been in the palace before, but
that Hawksworth had failed to spot them. However, not finding them at
the Thicket as he expected, Warner remarked that they might possibly
have popped over the palings, or through a side gate, into the palace
grounds, and he asked the captain, if he saw him at the entrance
turnstile, not to take any notice of him, as he might be on the lookout
for suspicious visitors.

On returning to the Chains, Captain Link remarked that it had flashed
across his mind that the two men must have been passengers on board the
_Neptune_, the last ship he came to England in, but he could not recall
their names, being a bad hand at that sort of thing.

“Do you know,” asked Miss Chain, “if Filcher was the name of the more
gentlemanly one of the two men?”

“No, I don’t think that was it.”

“Was it Croft, Captain Link?”

“Well, one of them answered to the name of Croft, and now I recollect
that it was the name of the little man; but his master’s--let me see, I
have it now--he was called Falcon, and he was my employer’s friend--or,
I should say, he passed as such for some time after the owner of the
ship had left Sydney. However, we will not say more about them at
present.”

“I am so glad,” said Mrs Chain, as they drew nearer to the palace,
“that you were with my daughter, Captain Link, when those suspicious
men turned up again.”

“Indeed, I am proud to have met Miss Chain; and, do you know, I have
some idea of ascending this afternoon?”

“Indeed!” said the mother, “that will be nice, and I hope you will all
have an enjoyable trip.”

“I want to ask you,” said the captain, “as we are getting near to the
balloon, not to say anything to my friend, Mr Harry Goodall, about this
man Falcon, or Filcher Falcon as William Goodall styles him--or of any
family accident or bereavement in the Goodall family of which you may
have heard.”

“We certainly will not,” said Miss Chain.

“By the way,” said the sailor, “did you notice a man walking near you,
just before we met in the grounds?”

“I did,” replied Miss Chain. “He was Hawksworth, the gentlemanly
detective, but not, I should say, a clever one.”

“Then Warner is only an ordinary policeman, I suppose?” said Captain
Link.

“Yes,” said Mrs Chain, “he is in plain clothes to-day, at present,
however; he never parades about or makes so much of himself as this
stranger Hawksworth does.”

“Indeed!” replied the captain--“but dear me, time has been on the wing.
Why, the balloon is nearly full.”

“Yes, we must hurry on, dear,” said Mrs Chain to her daughter. “I’m
afraid we are much later than we promised to be.”

“I see,” cried the captain, “that my friend Harry Goodall seems to be
chatting with several gentlemen who are much interested in what he is
going to do.”

“I wonder,” said Miss Chain, “if they are candidates for a trip?”

“I hope not,” replied the anxious mariner.

“I will ask,” said Miss Chain, “a palace official, who is coming our
way, if any of them wish to go up.”

“I think not,” was the reply. “Some of them are distinguished visitors,
who are delighted with Mr Goodall and his balloon.”

“Do you know them personally?” asked Captain Link.

“Oh yes; that portly, good-looking gentleman, speaking to the aeronaut,
is Sir Joseph Terry, J.P., four times Lord Mayor of York; next to him
is Sir William Ingram, Bart. The other gentlemen are Mr T. Hanson
Lewis, a barrister, Mr John Holah, an artist, and Mr Charles Bucknell,
an amateur aeronaut. The other aeronauts are Mr T. Wright, Mr Beatson,
of Huddersfield, and the Brothers Spencer, of Holloway.”

“Thank you very much,” said the captain; “and now just one more
inquiry, who is that tall, inquisitive looking man?--I have seen him
before, eyeing me rather attentively.”

“Oh, never mind him--you would not care for his acquaintance,” said the
official with a smile, as Hawksworth moved aside.

Miss Chain thought so too, though she refrained from mentioning his
name, when they drew near the enclosure.




CHAPTER XI

REMARKABLE EVENTS


Whilst Captain Link had been enjoying his saunter with Miss Chain,
Harry Goodall had been engaged with Trigger and the men in completing
the inflation, which had progressed rapidly; yet, somehow, the
assistant was not feeling easy, as his master had been sent for and
detained in the building, and Miss Chain had not come back as she
promised. Besides, he had been told that she had been seen strolling
about with a gentleman who had the appearance of an officer, and Tom,
who took a lively interest in Miss Chain’s welfare, felt vexed at her
being so long absent with a stranger; and on Mr Goodall’s return,
Trigger candidly told his master what he had heard. Mr Goodall was
very sorry, for he feared that perhaps his joking question to Captain
Link as to where marriages were made, when they were strolling about,
had been overheard and had given rise to gossip. Possibly that man
Hawksworth had been ensconced in the shrubs while they were chatting.

Presently, however, Captain Link, Miss Chain and her mother entered the
inner circle, and Tom was thoroughly restored to good humour by their
return. Soon afterwards Tom was called aside by Hawksworth, who said in
an undertone, but with confidence,--

“I felt sure that I was right in sticking here with you and Mr
Goodall--and how like his photo this pretended captain is.”

“I don’t know in the least what you are driving at,” cried Trigger.

“Sir,” said Mr Goodall, who had overheard the remark, “I fear you are
labouring under a delusion.”

“Yes,” said Simon Warner, coming forward, “you are wrong this time,
Jack!”

“Not I,” persisted Hawksworth, who, taking a photo from his pocket and
then quietly going up to Captain Link, requested him to withdraw, and
to consider himself under arrest.

“What do I hear? You scoundrel!--under arrest!” cried Captain Link. “If
you don’t immediately retract your words and apologise, I will knock
you down.”

“Go it, captain!” cried a bystander.

Then a great stir and excitement arose, but Simon Warner stepping
between the enraged captain and Hawksworth, whispered to the
detective,--

“You are on the wrong tack. I have seen the man you want and his mate,
too. I mean that little fellow Croft--both of them have been under your
very nose of late--and now you have gone and insulted a gentleman.”

Meanwhile, Mr Goodall, Tom Trigger and the general manager had ranged
up near Captain Link, to protest against the charge, and in doing so
they attempted to allude to the farcical error, in a humorous style,
as a gross blunder on the part of the detective, Hawksworth--who was
unknown to the authorities and who openly stated that he was extremely
sorry, but he had made a mistake, and begged the captain’s pardon.

Captain Link then, in a very manly way, accepted the altered situation
and was loudly cheered by the bystanders. But Warner, with remarkable
shrewdness, said in an undertone by way of further explanation,--

“The party you are in search of, Hawksworth, is almost, though not
quite, the double of that gentleman who is Captain Link.”

“But didn’t he leave Sydney and arrive here in the ship _Neptune_?”

“Yes, yes,” interrupted the aeronaut, “he has the honour to command
her. You have missed your men, Hawksworth. The fellows you want have
been knocking about here, causing no end of mischief, for some time.”

“If,” said Warner, “you want to drop upon two men named Falcon and
Croft, you come along with me and I’ll show you which road they took,
though I fear they’ve hooked it by this time.”

Hawksworth, after hearing this, at once withdrew from the enclosure
with Warner, when the situation was at length comprehended by everybody
present, and Captain Link, together with the aeronaut, became the
heroes of the hour.

The general manager, knowing that the appointed time for the ascent had
expired, said,--

“Pray, Mr Goodall, do not delay the ascent any longer, for these
complications are most regrettable.”

“I would not hurry Mr Goodall,” said the chairman of the directors.
“I have placed at his disposal, near the car, a small hamper of
refreshments, which may be acceptable to them on their journey,” he
added.

After acknowledging this thoughtful attention, Mr Goodall and his
party took their places in the car, Trigger having already tested the
ascending power with the gardeners’ help, who put in the car plenty
of ballast. All being ready, the aeronaut released his balloon.
Immediately an encouraging cheer arose, and all eyes were directed to
them for some minutes.

The course of the voyagers was towards Essex, but the balloon was soon
lost to view amongst the clouds, and was not seen afterwards from
Sydenham. But, in following them, the reader should know that, before
they glided through into the serene upper air, Harry Goodall was seen
by his companions to be examining more carefully his map and barometer.
Having done so, his attention was directed some few miles ahead, as
they had crossed the Thames and were well over, when he said to his
nautical friend,--

“Just take a look through my glass, Captain Link, and scan that red
brick building nestling among the trees yonder.”

“By Jove! Goodall, that looks uncommonly like your uncle’s residence,
where I was to arrive by train to-night, to give an account of how I
had succeeded in giving you a distaste for ballooning, and here I am
actually encouraging you and taking part in the pursuit myself. You
must really plunge us into cloudland before the balloon is identified
through your uncle’s long-distance telescope.”

“Don’t alarm yourself, Link, we are parting with ballast and shall
soon be out of sight and in blue sky, I hope, but we must watch the
influence of the north-easterly wind which prevails higher up.”

“You are quite right, Harry,” said Captain Link. “I observed the more
lofty clouds going in that direction this morning.”

“What a change!” exclaimed Miss Chain, “and how much darker it is.”

“Yes,” replied the aeronaut, “we are passing through the clouds, and I
daresay you feel chilly.”

“Allow me,” said the captain, “to draw your mantle closer around you,
Miss Chain.”

“Thank you; it is certainly colder.”

“Eighteen degrees less than when we started,” said Harry.

“But what a charming sight!” exclaimed Miss Chain, as the balloon shot
through the lighter vapour into sunshine.

“Quite a sea of clouds beneath us!” said Captain Link.

“Yes, and here we get a fine view of the ‘central blue,’” cried Harry
Goodall, rubbing his hands with delight at having changed the scene.

But while Miss Chain and Captain Link were exchanging their impressions
as to the fantastic forms of cloud and vapour which had gathered
beneath them, the aeronaut was intent, with his compass in one hand,
looking through an opening in the clouds towards a point of land
which he saw in the distance partly surrounded by the sea. Goodall
then noticed the course of the balloon as indicated by the compass,
not forgetting to watch their drift over the clouds as an additional
indication of the way in which they were going; but he was sorry to
find that, in trying to avoid his uncle’s house, they were caught on
the horns of a dilemma, for a momentary peep through a rift in the
clouds enabled him to perceive that they were travelling with great
speed in too close proximity to the Channel to be safe. They had
completely altered their direction, having risen into the north-east
current, which prevailed at about a mile and a half from the earth, and
they were now going towards Hastings, and had recrossed the estuary
of the Thames without knowing it. However, Harry Goodall did not wish
to alarm Miss Chain, or to make known their exact and rather perilous
position, which would have to be rectified.

Captain Link began to think that, when the chart and the compass were
so frequently consulted, there must be some cause for uneasiness, and,
as he knew that the aeronaut had traced with a pencil on his map their
course since they left Sydenham, he asked Harry to point out exactly
where they were supposed to be at that present moment. The aeronaut
hesitated to comply with the request, but gave the mariner and then Tom
Trigger the following answer,--

“We have totally changed our direction, and are now under the sway of
the north-easterly wind;--but I am going to descend a few thousand feet
and sight the earth.”

“But first let me look at your latest pencil mark, Goodall,” said
Captain Link.

“You shall; but we are now most likely more within the coast line.
Don’t be alarmed, Miss Chain, I am about to make a noise with the valve
by opening it somewhat.”

“Oh, I have full confidence in your skill and management, Mr Goodall,
though I thank you for warning me.”

The captain and Tom Trigger, both of whom inferred that the balloon
might have been getting nearer to the Channel than they had been aware
of, preserved a discreet reticence; but they quite understood that
until they had passed through the widespread range of clouds, and
ascertained whether they were over the sea or land, they could not
possibly be free from a considerable amount of doubt. Trigger began to
see to the stock of ballast which he was in charge of,--as they were
just approaching some Alpine peaks of cloudland, and would soon be
passing down through a much denser stratum.

“Oh, dear!” exclaimed Miss Chain, “it is getting dark and damp again!”

“Yes; but the chill will not last long,” said Mr Goodall, soothingly.

“That strong north-easter has given us a sharp turn, Harry,” said the
captain.

“It has, and to what extent it has driven us is just what I am anxious
to ascertain.”

“Strong light breaking, sir,” cried Tom Trigger who had taken a bag of
sand in one hand while he motioned to Captain Link to do likewise.

But Harry Goodall had caught the first indistinct glance of land and
water--afterwards they heard the sound of a railway whistle--but on the
left the open sea was not far off, though the aeronaut did not point
this out, but drew Miss Chain’s attention to the green marsh-land on
their right.

“Yes, wonderfully green isn’t it,” replied the lady; “but what
murmuring sound is that we hear? It reminds me of the surf breaking on
the seashore!”

“It does resemble that, certainly,” said Captain Link, “and we do hear
the distant ripples, but we are going rather inland.”

“Not so very much are we, Mr Goodall?” asked Miss Chain, while the
silence of the mariner and Trigger was strictly and wisely preserved.
“Those Martello Towers look pretty,” she added.

“They will look prettier presently,” said the captain, “as we leave
them behind us. We must have been bowling along, Harry, to be so far
south?”

“Yes, it was that swift upper current that did it; but we are now
almost in the same calm air which prevailed when we left the Crystal
Palace. At the same time, we must land as soon as possible,” said the
aeronaut, with a knowing look which the captain and Trigger knew how to
interpret,--for there was no disguising from them what a close shave
they had experienced, and that they were still too near the coast line
to be safe.

They were, however, under the influence of a light sea breeze which
bore them inland, and as a suitable spot for alighting was descried in
the distance, Tom Trigger asked if he should be ready with the grapnel.

“I think not, Trigger,” said his master. “We are making for a nice
spot behind those trees yonder; but you may lower the trail rope, as
we progress so slowly now that the people assembled in the quarter I
am pointing to, will be able to hold us fast without letting go the
grapnel.”

“I had no idea, Harry,” said Captain Link, “what tact and jockeyship
were necessary in managing a balloon. You see,” he added, turning to
Miss Chain, “the movements of this kind of craft differ widely from
those of a vessel on the water--here all is noiseless and seemingly
bewildering to novices like ourselves.”

“Do you think, Mr Goodall,” asked Miss Chain, “that we shall reach the
spot you have your eye upon?”

“Oh, yes; and I do not want to miss it, as the downs beyond are
uninviting--but I have no very accurate knowledge of this part of
the country. We must stop talking, however, now, please. Pay away
your trail rope, Trigger,” added the aeronaut; “the people there are
inviting us with their cheers.”

As the long rope dragged over the trees, it was soon caught and
held by the villagers and others who had collected, and the balloon
was gradually stopped, without any order having been given to that
effect. Then the people began to pull them down rather more hastily
than pleased Mr Goodall, so that Trigger became somewhat excited and
beckoned them not to do so until express orders were given.

“Tell that stout fellow in velveteens,” said the aeronaut, “not to be
in such a hurry, and not to jerk the rope, Trigger.”

“Hold on, Bennet!” cried Trigger, “for one moment, please.”

“How dare you call that man nicknames!” cried Mr Goodall. “How do you
know what his name is, and who, pray, are you kissing your hand to?”

“Why, sir, don’t you know where you are?”

“No, I don’t. Where are we, then?”

“Why, at Wedwell Park, in Sussex, to be sure. There stands Lucy, sir,
and Bennet, the gamekeeper. Listen, sir, and there’s the squire, too,
saying ‘Welcome friends, pray come down.’”

“Confound it all!” exclaimed Harry Goodall, “I would not have descended
here on any account, if I had known it. Link, I’m done for,” continued
Goodall, turning to the captain. “Squire Dove and his daughter reside
here. Whatever will my uncle say? Do tell them to let go the rope, as
I wish to proceed further.”

“But can’t we get out of this little affair without making an
ignominious retreat, Harry?” suggested Captain Link.

“It is a lovely spot!” urged Miss Chain. “What a pity to leave it, and
do notice that young lady who appears to be anxious for us to descend,
Mr Goodall.”

“Well, listen then, Link,” whispered Harry in a highly nervous
state, “there is only one way out of the difficulty. _We must not
say who we are or where we came from._ Let us merely call ourselves
experimentalists who do not desire publicity--remember that now.”

“Don’t forget, sir, that they know me,” said Trigger.

“Hold your tongue, Tom; I am very angry with you.”

“There is really nothing to be frightened about, Harry,” urged the
captain. “Neither Squire Dove nor his daughter know you personally, and
as to Trigger, you can call him the _balloon pilot_.”

“Bother his pilotage, and my own too! I ought to say, however, we are
all agreed not to divulge our names.”

“Oh, do listen,” said Miss Chain; “they are so anxious to have us down.”

“Welcome to Wedwell!” cried the squire once more. “Do pray come down.”

“Yes, do come!” said Miss Dove, pleadingly.

“There, Harry, if you can resist that!” exclaimed his friend Link.

“Yes; I suppose there is no help for it, and we must face it, and then
get away as soon as we possibly can. Gently down,” said the aeronaut
to Trigger, “and mind you spring out when I tell you, and warn Lucy to
hold aloof and not to betray us.”

“She won’t do that, sir,” said Tom.

“Gently down, Bennet,” sang out the balloon pilot, in compliance with
his master’s wish that he should act up to his new title.

“Don’t be alarmed, Harry. I will make it all right with your uncle,”
whispered Captain Link, who looked as if he were pleased at the turn
things had taken.

A round of cheering greeted the voyagers, as the car dropped into the
arms of the Wedwell parkites. The squire took off his hat to Miss
Chain, and Edith Dove blushingly said some pleasant words of greeting
to Harry Goodall, who was pointed out by the captain as the proprietor
of the balloon, to whom the chief honours were due.

Trigger was allowed to get out of the car, while the sturdy gamekeeper
was asked to take his place. The aeronaut’s eyes were fixed for some
seconds on Miss Dove--but what his thoughts were neither Captain Link
nor Miss Chain could divine.

“If you will only get out,” said the squire, “I will guarantee that the
gamekeeper and his men will take charge of your balloon, whilst you all
get some refreshment. We are just going to dinner. Hand me that chair
for the lady to dismount, and do allow me,” said the squire, “to assist
you.”

“If one of your men will get in as each of us gets out,” cried the
aeronaut, “to make up the weight--that will do. But the pilot is coming
back; he will tell you how to manage.”

“I do hope that you are not going to let the gas out,” said the squire.
“Couldn’t you, after dinner, treat us to a captive ascent?”

“Certainly,” said the aeronaut, “I shall have much pleasure in doing
so, Squire Dove.”

A surly-looking old gentleman here came forward and said,--

“Don’t risk your life in such a trap as that, squire.”

“Please not to interfere, Doctor Peters,” retorted Squire Dove, testily.

At this moment the gong was heard in the distance, when the squire
offered his arm to Miss Chain, and begged that the aeronaut would
escort Miss Dove.

“We must not lose sight of your nautical-looking friend,” said the
squire, alluding to Captain Link. “Your pilot I have seen before, I
believe; he will be in good hands.”

“Thank you, squire, he will have to stick to the ship.”

“Now, do favour me with your name,” said the Squire to the aeronaut.

“The truth is we have all agreed to preserve strict secrecy in that
respect, squire, for reasons which I cannot fully explain just at this
moment.”

“Oh, I quite grasp the idea. You are not professional balloonists,
probably, and do not wish to make known what you are doing.”

“No, we are not, and do not care about publicity or anything of that
sort.”

“I observed that, after you came through the clouds, your balloon moved
less rapidly, and just as it came nearer the earth you were almost
becalmed--how do you account for that, pray?”

“I scarcely know,” replied the aeronaut; “it may have been owing to
some influence I failed to notice.”

“Atmospheric, you mean,” cried the squire.

“Oh, do, papa,” interposed Miss Dove, “let us get into the Hall before
the tiresome old doctor comes. He is following us with a letter in his
hand.”

“Perhaps our Sydenham friend will not be in to dinner after all,” said
the squire. “We will halt for one moment, please, to hear about that.
How now, Doctor Peters?” added the squire; “you move as nimbly as ever.”

“I have just had a message, squire,” said the doctor in a whisper, “to
say that our friend Falcon cannot keep his engagement--he may be here
this evening or to-morrow. Excuse my coming in, squire.”

“Yes, yes, certainly, Peters, you amuse yourself with the balloon. Did
our friend Falcon come down to Lewes?”

“I did not hear particulars,” replied the doctor; “but something has
turned up to stop his arrival here.”

“No accident, I hope?” said Miss Dove.

“Now do come in, friends,” urged the squire, who proceeded to show his
visitors above stairs.

Afterwards, when they were seated at table, the squire expressed regret
that his friend, who had not been in England long, did not happen to be
present.

“Very likely, Edith,” said her father, “he was detained by something
unforeseen at Sydenham.”

“It may have been owing to something _seen_,” said Miss Dove, archly.

But while the squire’s daughter looked as if it would be quite as
well for them to say no more about the absentee, the aeronaut caught
sight of an enlarged photographic likeness, on which his attention was
riveted, and which appeared to give him some uneasiness, but it passed
unnoticed by Miss Chain and Captain Link, their backs being towards it.




CHAPTER XII

UNMASKED


The secret thoughts of Harry Goodall, Captain Link and Miss Chain,
whilst at dinner, were of a varied character. The aeronaut’s were
of a surprised and bewildered kind, his friend Link’s of a cheerful
description, and Miss Chain’s of a mixed and somewhat melancholy
order, for she felt sorry for her employer, who had been suddenly
and unexpectedly thrown among people whom he had been studiously
neglecting, and who would not probably be so genial had they known
who he was. Miss Chain was hopeful, however, that Miss Dove would
dispel the aeronaut’s reserve, for she was trying to make him feel
at home, and was unquestionably proving attractive to him. Even the
squire thought that he had never seen his daughter so animated and
captivating before. Captain Link was sure that Harry’s visit could not
possibly have a bad effect, for his excellent qualities would soon be
appreciated; nor was he slow to perceive that, if the Doves’ expected
friend turned out to be Falcon, the man whom he had seen that morning
with his confederate Croft, it would prove to be no ill wind that had
blown them to Wedwell Park, so that the captain inwardly exulted in the
idea that their rather risky cruise would turn out to be the luckiest
he had ever made, as Mr William Goodall had assured him that, if he
could only persuade his nephew to go to Wedwell either by rail or road,
he would be booked for promotion, though of course, it never entered
the merchant’s mind that Harry would ever present himself there in his
balloon, much less that he would do so in Captain Link’s company, who
had been afraid of their hovering over Essex, and had very likely been
the cause of the balloon wandering into Sussex, and which by a fluke
dropped among the Doves of Wedwell Park.

Miss Dove, meanwhile, seemed to be more and more taken with the
aeronaut’s unpretending manners, and to be listening intently to his
excellent conversation.

Captain Link, who was delighted with Miss Chain’s intelligent remarks
and lady-like manners, knew that, but for the fortunate circumstance
of having been introduced to her by Goodall, he would not have been
where he was, so that he had to hide his good spirits lest they should
present too great a contrast to his friend’s somewhat depressed manner,
which had been noticed by the squire, so he ordered the servant to
replenish the gentleman’s wine glass by way of cheering up the man
of science; and the host, moreover, asked for his opinion as to the
wonderful statements which had recently appeared as to “Flying being
made Easy” and “Aerial Navies grappling in the Central Blue.”

Thus challenged, the aeronaut’s eyes brightened considerably; he
seemed, however, as if he were reluctant to give full play to what he
really thought, though it was clear that he had sentiments of his own
which he was capable of imparting if he were so disposed.

The squire’s daughter seeing this, and being determined to draw him out
if possible, said,--

“I hope the day will never come when the anarchists will use these
scientific appliances to pour down upon the people’s heads tons of fire
and flame in the dreadful way we have read about.”

“Indeed,” said the aeronaut, “I think it much more probable that the
constituted authorities may turn upon the heads of the anarchists some
kind of check in that form--that is, if ever they combine in such an
immense array that the latest types of guns cannot disperse them, as
Maxim’s guns did the hordes of Matabeleland.”

“What do you say to that, sir?” asked the squire of his nautical
visitor.

“I quite agree with the aeronaut,” replied the mariner; “and I may
mention,” continued he, “that balloons, and parachutes as well, have
only recently been proposed for use by my friend to illustrate how
applicable they are for such purposes in proper hands, and he has shown
that they can be advantageously employed without waiting for the aid
of flying machines and directable aerostats, which have been so long
promised, and yet I doubt, if the sum of £10,000 were offered to any
man who could unmistakably demonstrate ‘flight’ before a committee of
reliable men, that there would be found anyone able to entitle himself
to it!”

“Yes,” said the squire, “that would be a fair enough way of settling
these pretensions.”

“But don’t you believe, Miss Dove,” added the aeronaut, “that the
continental military balloonists can direct their air ships so that
those anarchical foreigners can bombard our coasts, cities and towns
with dynamite in the way they propose?”

“You do not think, then, that flying is to be so easily accomplished?”

“Not just yet. Futile attempts may be made, and many narrow escapes
recorded.”

“But couldn’t aerial navies from the Continent come to our shores?”

“Of course they can, but not by the novel style of flying which is
talked about. No, Miss Dove, if men or machines can fly, the inventors
of them need not wait for war to make their fortunes. Merchants and
capitalists would find it to their advantage to handsomely remunerate
such persons to use their wings for mercantile and other purposes--of
course men will embark in Quixotic performances.”

“But if they do not succeed,” said the squire, “it must heavily
handicap and tax poor inventors to pay for their schemes.”

“Yes, indeed, they always did pay for them; but I daresay you are
aware, squire, that syndicates and benevolent capitalists might be
found to assist bold and incautious financiers to float them.”

“What do you say, my dear sir?” asked the squire. “You are
awakening--that is, enlightening us surprisingly; but do let us fill up
our glasses--one almost requires a stimulant to face even the thought
of what may be going on in these times. I only heard yesterday of a
suicidal attempt at flying that came off at Haywards Heath by some
foreigners.”

“Then,” said Edith Dove, “you do not believe in all these wonderful
modern experiments?”

“Not in some of them. A few scientific inventors of recent date may be
sanguine, clever and well-intentioned men, but not all of them, I fear.”

“How pleased, Edith,” said her father, “Mr Falcon would be to take part
in these discussions. What a pity he is not here!”

“The doctor thought he might arrive later, papa, and so he may be here
yet.”

“Our friend Falcon,” said the squire, “has been a great traveller, and
represents a firm of shipowners in London and Sydney.”

Fortunately, the squire did not observe that his reference to Mr Falcon
fell like a bomb-shell among his guests, who controlled, as far as
possible, any outward indication of their feelings, though they knew
who was meant by the squire in his last utterance, and as the aeronaut
had been looking at Falcon’s photo on the wall, he was not in reality
so much taken by surprise as were Miss Chain and Captain Link.

“These gentlemen may possibly have met Mr Falcon, Edith,” said the
squire.

“May I ask if that is his portrait?” asked the aeronaut of Miss Dove,
pointing to the photo on the wall.

“Yes! you have been studying the face, haven’t you?”

“I know the face, but I am not very familiar with the name,” replied
the aeronaut.

“I should think, Edith, that this gentleman,” turning to the mariner,
“is the more likely to know Mr Falcon,” said her father.

“I certainly know a Mr Falcon,” replied the captain, “and I’ll have a
look at his likeness presently.”

“And the young lady,” said Miss Dove, “is she at all acquainted with
him?”

“I have seen the shadow of _a_ Mr Falcon, but the person I have such
vivid recollections of was named, I think, Filcher Falcon, and may, or
may not, be the same man,” replied Miss Chain.

“Did you mind the name Filcher, Edith?” asked the squire. “We may,
after all,” he continued, “be alluding to two distinct persons.”

At this point, Miss Dove gave her father a look which he appeared to
understand, for the financier was not, for a time, further mentioned.

Poor Miss Chain had not yet seen whether the likeness on the wall, and
the “shadow man” represented one and the same person, but she strongly
suspected that it was so, though she and the captain suppressed their
curiosity for a while, but they had their misgivings; and as to the
squire and his daughter, they both saw that they had been treading upon
dangerous ground, and that the mystery could not very well be cleared
up just then, so by way of changing the subject, Squire Dove asked the
aeronaut if he intended dropping in Wedwell Park.

“I am afraid I came to you, more from necessity than desire,” was
the candid reply. “We were advancing towards the sea, after having
journeyed by a strong upper current over the clouds from Essex, when
your property, squire, was found to be the most suitable and tempting
spot on which to alight.”

“Then what induced you to hesitate, if I may take the liberty of
asking, before you at length condescended to drop among us?”

“We were divided in opinion as to the advisability of coming down; but
your persuasive invitation, coupled with Miss Dove’s appeal, decided
me to do so, though I certainly doubted whether ballooning would be
acceptable to you.”

“I hope,” said Miss Dove, “that Doctor Peters’s rude remark did not
give offence.”

“I hope not,” added the squire. “He is an obstinate man, but I was not
aware that he felt a prejudice against aerial research.”

“It may be,” said the aeronaut, “that he is in the confidence of the
gentleman whose photo faces me.”

“Umph!” thought the captain, “Harry is fizzing like a bottle of
champagne in his balloon car.”

“Yes,” replied the squire, “Doctor Peters and our expected visitor may
or may not entertain similar views, but I never heard them allude to
aerostatics or balloonists.”

“No doubt, papa,” said Miss Dove, “that this pleasant and instructive
visit will enlighten us a good deal.”

“I do believe it will, my dear,” said her father, thoughtfully.

“I wish,” said Miss Dove, “that we could address our friends by their
names. May we, however,” turning towards the mariner, “venture to beg
of the--captain, to tell us how he and the lady liked their voyage?”

Captain Link having bowed in recognition of Miss Dove’s guess as to
his rank proceeded to state that, although he had often crossed the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, besides having been round the world more
than once, yet he had not, until that day, ever been up in a balloon,
nor had the young lady, whose acquaintance he had but recently made
in a most romantic manner, in fact, they were both much indebted to
the aeronaut for their first aerial journey, but seeing the aeronaut
frowning at this injudicious communication, he must beg to be excused
from saying anything further.

“Oh, no,” cried Miss Dove, “that is too bad, captain--why, your story
was just becoming so interesting.”

“Indeed, you will vastly disappoint us, captain, unless you proceed,”
said the squire. “We are on the tiptoe of expectation to profit by
every word that either of you might utter.”

“Besides, we may never have another chance, papa!” said Miss Dove,
anxiously.

“No, indeed, for such visits may be, like angels’, few and far between,
so you _must finish up_, captain,” cried the squire, “for I tell you
candidly that we are already under a spell. All that you say leads us
to regard you as aerial messengers with the best of intentions, telling
us something for our good. I beg of you to continue.”

“Well, then, if I must do so, I may as well tell you that this young
lady had been acquainted with a gentleman who was not of the ancient
knightly order; on the contrary, he had been most heartless, unfair
and cruel to her, so that, when my friend there told me of the way
the said gentleman had behaved, I felt as if I should like to take
up the cudgels for the injured one, and while thinking so, he most
unexpectedly turned up but made off immediately afterwards, and well
he did so, for an officious detective was after him. Now, would you
believe it, not so many hours ago, this so-called astute officer
suddenly attempted to arrest me, believing that I was this suspected
person--whose name I need not mention.”

“Are you listening, Edith? Pay attention. There might have been some
personal resemblance. The captain admits that,” said Squire Dove.

“I am so intent, papa, on what the captain is telling us, that I can
barely answer. I have not lost a word; but,” she added turning to the
captain, “do please go on, your experience is so very interesting.”

“The detective soon found out his mistake and was taken to task about
it. It was an amusing scene,” continued the captain, “for I was on
the point of figuring as a belligerent, but my friend stopped me from
committing myself.”

“Was it not that honest policeman, captain, who did so?” interrupted
the aeronaut.

“So it was; he acted a good part, and will be a great man some day.”

“What was his name?” asked the squire.

“We must not tell names, according to our agreement,” said the captain,
laughingly.

“How trying!” said the squire.

“Oh, you might just tell us the policeman’s name and the locality,”
said Miss Dove, persuasively, and the captain was half-inclined to do
so, when a servant knocked at the door and handed a note to Miss Dove.

“Won’t it be as well,” said the squire, taking out his watch, “to
go and see about a captive ascent? You must not think of leaving
us to-night, friends, for, to be candid with you, neither I nor my
daughter can rest until we know more of you, and hear the sequel to
your adventure.”

“Yes, indeed,” said Miss Dove, “we can now very easily understand why
you didn’t wish names to be known.”

“We will talk that over after the ascents,” said the squire. “I daresay
my gamekeeper, who is outside, wants to know if we are ready to ascend.
Miss Dove will take your lady friend upstairs; but, dear me, she is
looking at the photograph of Mr Falcon, and has turned quite pale. Do
take her to your room, Edith, and don’t forget to give orders about the
other rooms for our friends. And now, gentlemen,” added the squire, “do
be seated for five minutes and taste my port wine. Here’s health and
long life to you both. Ah! I’m truly glad to find that we are brothers
in a masonic sense. It strikes me that I shall know your names before
long, and those other two names as well. I mean of the unprincipled
gentleman and the able policeman.”

“We shall feel bound to let you know them before we separate,” said the
aeronaut.

“I have just been thinking,” observed Squire Dove, “that there
is something very remarkable in your having all identified the
photographic likeness on the wall. Three to one is long odds. I
suppose, if Mr Falcon should come in, you will have no objection to
meeting him?”

“I should not,” said the aeronaut.

“Nor I,” added the captain, “if I am not again mistaken for him by a
detective as I was this morning.”

“You are letting the cat out of the bag now, captain,” said the squire.
“But really I thought you were alluding to our Mr Falcon in your
humorous story, that is to say if you were not indulging in fiction.”

“What I said was all literally true, squire.”

“I can answer for that,” added the aeronaut.

“You amaze me completely,” cried the squire; “but would you, if Mr
Falcon should turn up outside or here, tell him so to his face?”

“Yes, and a great deal more,” replied Captain Link; “but Falcon would
not have the audacity to remain for a second in our presence.”

“That is saying a good deal! And I begin to think he will not come
this evening, as he would perhaps hear that your balloon had come down
here. I believe, candidly, gentlemen, that every word you have said
must have some foundation; but I am very vexed to suppose that I have
been deceived in this man, for I took him for a great and successful
financier. However, we can enter into these points by-and-by, as I
daresay there are many friends and neighbours in the park by this time.
Mr Falcon may be in their midst, for all I know.”

“He is more likely to be in ambush not far off,” said the aeronaut.

“Indeed! you speak, my friends, with such an air of confidence, that I
shall not hesitate to suggest that we start down at once and inquire if
anything has been seen or heard of him. Someone is knocking, I think,”
added the squire. “Oh, Lucy, come in. What’s the matter?”

“If you please, sir, Miss Dove says that, as the young lady is not
very well, she would like to remain with her a little longer, but she
wishes that the gentlemen should not delay their captive ascents,
although there will be moonlight early this evening. And Miss Dove
wishes you to read this short telegram, sir--just received.”

“Very well, Lucy, then we will go down to the park at once, and say I
hope the lady will soon be herself again.”

After Lucy had left the room, the squire read the short note.

“It is merely a hoax, I should say,” added the squire, “but judge for
yourselves. This is what it says,--

  “‘Miss Dove is warned to be careful how she walks about Wedwell Park
  and other parts for the next few days, without she has someone with
  her.

                                                                “‘S. W.’

“There is no signature attached,” added the squire, “beyond the
initials S. W.; they do not amount to much. S. W. might be Sam Watson,
an officious neighbour.”

“Or Simon Warner,” thought the aeronaut, and then turning to the
squire, he said,--

“Will you allow me just to see the handwriting?”

“You wouldn’t know it,” replied the squire; “it is a telegram,
remember. Still, Falcon’s absence, if persisted in, will give rise
to fears which will be greatly increased if he does not show up by
to-morrow; his not coming to-day, when he faithfully appointed to be
here to dinner, attaches great weight to what you have all three said.”

“I am afraid,” replied the aeronaut, as he looked at the captain, “that
we have done wrong in not going farther a-field, as we are creating
unpleasant apprehensions.”

“Your opportune arrival here, on the contrary, may prove of the utmost
service to me and to my daughter; and now, after that frank admission,
we must really be moving towards the balloon; but before we leave, I
will just ask Bennet to step in.”

“Have you heard anything, Bennet, about that silly attempt at flight
near Haywards Heath?”

“Not much in it, squire, I believe.”

“Who were the parties?”

“Two Dutchmen, I was told. The man who tried to fly was a little man
called Professor Scudder, and his employer, I heard, was a fine, big,
full-bearded gentleman, but his beard and wig were false.”

“How could they know that, Bennet?”

“There was an explosion, squire, and he was blown into a horse pond,
where his wig and beard came off.”

“What next shall we hear of? Quite a mountebank performance, I
suppose,” said the squire, with a loud laugh.

“Something that way. It was thought, squire, Professor Scudder was shot
into a clump of trees, and had a narrow escape.”

“May I ask your gamekeeper how long since this affair came off?” asked
the aeronaut.

“Barely a fortnight since, sir,” said Bennet.

“Soon after I alighted on the Essex Marsh,” observed Harry Goodall to
Captain Link, suggestively.




CHAPTER XIII

THE MYSTERIOUS SHOT


“Now, Bennet,” said the squire, as they left the hall, “will the
balloon lift us?”

“Oh, yes, squire, the pilot says she has plenty of power.”

“That’s all right. I ought to have told you, gentlemen, that we have
large works near the park lane which can supply more gas if it is
required. How much can we spare, Bennet?”

“About 20,000 feet, squire--that is, on demand, but much more to order.”

“We are surprised to hear this, squire,” said the aeronaut; “at that
rate, my balloon could be either refilled here, or fed and retained if
need be.”

“Yes, it could. I hope the pilot has been well seen after, Bennet?”

“Oh yes, squire, I have attended to him myself; but we have been a bit
annoyed by the doctor, who has been taking on worse than ever.”

“What about? What has he to do with my visitors, who have enlightened
me on points of great importance, and who will always meet with a warm
reception here?”

“Doctor Peters has been predicting, squire, that the balloon is like a
bird of ill omen, and that it means something unpleasant happening.”

“Perhaps he meant it portends that something unpleasant has been found
out. However, I must clip the doctor’s wings, and as to ‘birds of ill
omen,’ I don’t know whom he can be thinking about. By-the-bye, have you
seen anything of Mr Falcon?”

“Not to-day, squire.”

“When was his servant, Croft, last here?”

“Oh, not since Mr Falcon was injured in the back by the Essex poachers,
squire.”

A hearty laugh followed this remark, but the aeronaut did not venture a
reply until the squire said,--

“What do you think of that, gentlemen?”

“Perhaps the sportsman was on other people’s property,” said Harry
Goodall.

“That is a question we will leave for the present,” replied the squire.

“Is Doctor Peters still in the park, Bennet?”

“I believe he has gone to the post-office, squire, about an answer to a
telegram he sent to Sydenham when the balloon arrived.”

“Oh, that’s it, is it? Well, the doctor may be on the staff of the
_Times_ for what I know; he is a most singular character. One can
scarcely take seriously all that he has to say of himself. But you go
on in advance, Bennet, and say that we are on our way down.”

“What may be your pilot’s name, pray?” asked Squire Dove.

“Tom Trigger,” replied the aeronaut.

“An expressive name. Is he a good shot?”

“Do you mean at game, squire?” asked the aeronaut, smiling.

“It is not to be supposed that he would fire on a fellow-creature.”

“Yet he has fired at one when greatly exasperated,” said the aeronaut.

“Indeed!” exclaimed the squire, as they rounded a clump of lofty
trees in the vicinity of a fish-pond, near to which the gas house was
located, close to a lane.

“Now, pilot,” said the aeronaut, “will the balloon lift three,
including Squire Dove?”

“She has ample power, sir, for four.”

“My daughter will not be able to join us just yet,” added the squire.
“Can the balloon ascend by moonlight?”

“Oh, yes,” replied the aeronaut.

On the strength of these assurances, the squire, Harry Goodall and the
captain ascended to the length of a long rope, and had a splendid
bird’s-eye view of the park and the surrounding country. Afterwards,
at the squire’s request, his neighbour, the Reverend Mr Penfold went
up, the squire accompanying him. This induced many others to follow,
and after a time some of the household went aloft, conducted by Tom
Trigger, Lucy having set them the example, but she had to go back
immediately afterwards to Miss Dove, who was soon going down for her
moonlight trip; but the squire began to think that it was almost too
late to continue the ascents. However, as Miss Dove was seen to be
approaching in the carriage, he said,--

“Can you take the captain besides yourself and my daughter?” adding
that he would himself see to the working of the windlass.

As soon as they were comfortably seated, the aeronaut said,--

“Let up steadily, please, squire.”

“All right, the pilot and plenty of hands are in attendance.”

The view Miss Dove had of the park and Wedwell Hall by the light of
the moon was unexpectedly gratifying, but owing to the lady visitor’s
attack of hysteria, Edith was more thoughtful and less appreciative of
the silvery-lighted scenery than she otherwise would have been; still,
her remarks of delight were heard below, and her friends declared that
this was the most striking ascent that had been made, for the people
cheered and gave Miss Dove quite an ovation. But just when the pilot
and Bennet had commenced to wind down the balloon, a report from a gun
was heard, which appeared to have been discharged from a neighbouring
plantation--and as the flash was seen just within the borders of the
plantation, people hardly knew what to make of the affair, especially
as a hat was seen directly afterwards to fall from the balloon.

Bennet, thinking that it was the accidental discharge of a poacher’s
gun, rushed up a bye-path leading to the lane, followed by a local
policeman and a stranger, who had not long arrived from Lewes, and who
was said to be a detective named Warner.

As the balloon came near the ground, something was seen to be wrong,
for Miss Dove appeared very excited, and the aeronaut had drawn a scarf
over his head; but he asked the squire to help Miss Dove out of the
car, when she stepped aside and whispered something to her father.
The captain, looking very serious, told Trigger to place some men in
the car, as they got out, then he offered to assist the aeronaut to
dismount, but the aeronaut said, as if nothing was amiss, that he
did not want any help, though the squire and Miss Dove, who had now
reappeared, could perceive that blood was flowing down his face.

“Do, papa,” cried the anxious young lady, “insist upon his going up to
the Hall with us in the carriage.”

“Yes, take my arm and do so,” said the squire; “and you accompany us,
captain.”

Trigger followed them to the door of the carriage, having his master’s
hat in his hand, and pointed to a hole in it; but the aeronaut smiled
and said,--

“You are really making much ado about nothing; it is a mere graze on
the head. Don’t, pray, feel alarmed.”

Miss Dove, despite these assurances, was visibly agitated, nor could
she well be otherwise, as a rather copious flow of blood pointed to a
wound of some kind.

As soon as the Hall was reached, Lucy was sent for to go and look for
Doctor Peters. She came forward, looking very frightened and saying
that the cook, Saunders, had met with some injury, for Lucy had not yet
seen who was in the carriage, and was going on to explain the cook’s
mishap, when the aeronaut, her former master, entered. Seeing that some
accident had happened, Lucy ran off at once, followed by the squire,
to obtain the doctor’s assistance, whilst the captain, having got some
water and a sponge, began to bathe the wound, and was doing his best
to stop the bleeding when the doctor was heard to be coming with the
squire.

Doctor Peters was astonished to see who was his second patient, and was
inclined to break out into a tirade as to the two disasters which had
been brought about by the balloon. He said the cook had been knocked
down by two fellows, and now what was this affair?

The squire, though he had hardly patience to explain, said,--

“While my daughter was making a captive ascent, someone fired off a gun
at this gentleman or at Edith, from the long plantation!”

The doctor, who had not examined the wound with much energy, suggested
that it might have been accidental, most likely a stray shot from a
poacher’s gun--judging by the partially scalping effects of it.

“Is it at all serious?” asked the squire, impatiently.

“I should say not, squire. The cranium has been struck over the
phrenological organ of benevolence. Had it been an inch lower, it might
have proved fatal.”

“Then,” said Miss Dove, “it is not dangerous?”

“No, it is of a superficial character, fortunately.”

“It is a pity,” said Miss Dove, as she left the room to go and speak to
the invalid lady upstairs, “that you did not say so at once.”

“Exactly. Your misplaced formality, doctor, is perplexing and uncalled
for,” said the irritated squire, “and I think that if you had come to
the point at once it would have been quite as well.”

“Don’t you worry, squire,” said the patient. “I told you before that
nothing very serious had occurred.”

“Then if I go and see to the ladies, you will excuse me for a short
time,” said the squire.

“Certainly,” said the aeronaut; “and I shall feel obliged if the
captain will go down to the people and give Doctor Peters’s report to
all who may inquire after Miss Dove and myself.”

“My dear sir!” exclaimed the doctor, as the captain left, “excuse me,
but I noticed that you coupled your name in a very familiar manner with
Miss Dove’s. Now, perhaps you are not aware that a gentleman has been
assiduously and recently--”

“There, shut up your confounded nonsense, doctor,” cried the
aeronaut, with a loud laugh; “I am quite sure that no one who may
have been visiting here lately, or who may still be hanging about
this neighbourhood, will have any chance with Miss Dove unless his
intentions and actions are honourable.”

“My good sir,” cried the doctor, “your wound is causing an inflammatory
state of the brain, I am afraid. Do be less wandering if you can, or
I cannot undertake to fit you for leaving here, as you no doubt wish
to do, in order to attend to your ballooning. If you keep quiet, you
can leave with my approval to-morrow; but to do so you must avoid all
flights of fancy that may prove exciting.”

Here the patient broke out into another fit of laughter, which
brought down Miss Dove, who was delighted to hear any indication of
cheerfulness.

“I was simply alluding,” said Doctor Peters, by way of explanation, “to
Mr Falcon’s visits here, when this gentleman thought proper to betray
feverish, if not slighting, outbursts, which I was not prepared for,
Miss Dove.”

“Have you noticed, Doctor Peters,” asked Edith, “that my father has
removed Mr Falcon’s portrait?”

“No, I had not, Miss Dove,” said the doctor; “in fact, I have been
feeling partially bewildered ever since the balloonists dropped upon
us, so you must not be too hard on an old friend.”

After this appeal, Edith left the doctor and his patient alone.

“Did I understand,” asked the doctor, “that you knew Mr Falcon?”

“I have seen him on more occasions than one,” replied the patient.
“Hadn’t he been shot in the back, and didn’t he try to wear spectacles,
and hasn’t he a rather flighty turn?”

“What can you know of Mr Falcon’s habits beyond mere hearsay?”

“I know more about him than you imagine, doctor!”

“Of his double, perhaps.”

“I am alluding to your Mr Falcon, who wore spectacles on the day that
he was shot at in the Essex marshes for attempted incendiarism.”

“Merciful powers! My good sir, what are you dreaming of? He certainly
did tell me that he had tried spectacles, but I told him to throw them
up.”

“Did he tell you what else he had tried?”

“God bless me, sir, you are getting worse and worse.”

“Have you seen him about here this evening, doctor? I mean since you
communicated with him?”

“Goodness me, no! It would be impossible for Mr Falcon to be here.”

“How so? Supposing he left Sydenham Station before five o’clock,
couldn’t he have secretly crept into the park before the last ascent of
the balloon?”

“My good man!” cried the doctor, “you have got some of the most
horrible notions in your head that it is possible to conceive.”

“Would you, doctor, be surprised to learn, as I did before I was
shot at, that a policeman from Sydenham is now here watching the
proceedings?”

“I must really go and have a private talk with the squire, and send for
your friend. Ah! some knocks--come in. Oh! it’s Miss Dove, I see. Will
you remain here, Miss Edith, while I speak with your father?”

“Certainly, doctor; you will meet him coming down.”

When Doctor Peters met the squire, he said to him confidentially,--

“It is advisable that the balloonist’s friend, the sailor, should look
well after him to-night; and he must take no stimulants, as I fear that
his mind is affected.”

“What makes you think so, Peters?”

“Think so? I’m sure of it, squire. He fancies that your friend Falcon
is an incendiary and a homicide, besides being flighty.”

“That is no proof that he is deranged; this scientific gentleman is a
perfectly sane and far-seeing man.”

“Is he, squire? Then I am wrong in the upper story myself, while
you are far gone in balloonacy! But don’t you listen to any
cleverly-devised fables without having strong evidence to support them,
squire, for I have no doubt that Mr Falcon will reappear to-morrow or
next day and upset these people’s statements.”

“He dare not appear face to face with them,” said the squire.

“Don’t you believe that, for it is only the balloonist’s wild notion,
which he has got into his head to-night.”

“It is well he didn’t get the bullet into his head! The question now
for solution is, who fired either at him or at my daughter?”

“I am surprised, Squire Dove, at your having listened to what these
utter strangers have insinuated about an absent man, who is being very
likely mistaken for someone else of the same name.”

“You don’t know, doctor, what these strangers have told me and my
daughter?”

“No, I do not, but if I had been present when they disparaged Mr
Falcon, I should have stood up for him, as I will do until he arrives
to defend himself; and as you have always been credited, squire, with
not being prejudiced against the accused until you hear what he has to
say, I hope you will not be hasty in believing all you hear.”

“When we get strong confirmation--proof after proof against Falcon, I
suppose you will give in then, doctor?”

“Oh, yes, squire, I will undertake to eat my own words if you can
convince me that I am wrong, for I look upon this episode in ballooning
as a farcical affair!”

“That will do, doctor, please, for it may sooner than you expect
present a much more serious aspect! Of course, you will give your
patients a look in the morning?”

“Most certainly. I have well dressed the balloonist’s head.”

“Don’t fear, doctor, that he will turn out ungrateful, for if one-half
of what I hear is true, he may return the compliment before long by
giving you a dressing.”

“I am sorry to see you influenced, squire, by such absurd trash. Don’t
believe a word of it. _Au revoir._”

When the squire hastened down the park to see if the man who had
discharged the gun had been seen, he found that the local policeman and
Bennet had not yet returned from their chase after the two men from the
back part of Wedwell Hall, who had been seen to run away in a northerly
direction, where they might have met and injured the cook.

Just before the aeronaut had gone aloft for the last trip, Warner had
suddenly appeared on the scene, though not expected, but he had not
sufficient time to tell Mr Goodall the object of his visit. Thinking
it, therefore, just possible that he might not see the aeronaut again
for some little time to describe what brought him down to Wedwell Park,
he went into the gamekeeper’s cottage and wrote down on a slip of paper
a memorandum of particulars and left the same for early delivery to Mr
Goodall.

The captain brought it up to the Hall, accompanied by the squire, after
they had seen that the pilot, together with a good staff of workmen had
been told off to look after the balloon during the night.

The squire, who had inadvertently or purposely left the young people
alone, anxiously asked if the patient was worse?

“No, I am altogether better, squire,” said the aeronaut, and glancing
at the letter which the captain handed him, he gave it back, asking him
to read it out to them.

Warner’s reason for going to Wedwell Park:--

  “After you ascended, sir, to-day, I tried to find Falcon and Croft at
  Sydenham with the aid of the London detective, Hawksworth, but the
  roundabout way he went to work in search of a clue so upset me that I
  left him and proceeded in my own humble way to act alone.

  “Just as I was going to my lodgings, near the Lower Sydenham Station,
  I met a railway clerk I know coming that way, and I asked him if he
  had seen anything of two men, one tall and dark, the other short and
  sly looking, as they were wanted.

  “‘If you step into the booking department,’ he said, ‘you will find
  them consulting the time tables about a Sussex train; they are going
  on by the next train to Croydon, where they will change for Lewes.
  Shall I go in and get you a ticket, and arrange that you slip into
  the guard’s van, Mr Warner?’

  “‘Please do, and send on word to our inspector to say where I am
  going, as it is on important business,’ I said, at the same time
  explaining a little to him about the balloon ascent and the men’s
  recent conduct.

  “‘But,’ said he, ‘do you know, Mr Warner, where the balloon came
  down?’

  “‘No I don’t,’ I replied.

  “‘It dropped in Wedwell Park, not so very far from Lewes, strange to
  say? We have had a message up to that effect, and that is what these
  men are going there about in all probability,’ said he.

  “‘Did they reply to the telegram?’ I asked.

  “‘No, but they have been away since and disguised themselves;
  but I could see they were the same parties and thought they were
  card-sharpers. If you look sharp, you will have time to slip into
  your lodgings and put on other clothes,’ said he.

  “‘All right, and I’ll tread close on their heels, and very glad I am
  to get a good clue without beating about the bush,’ I said to the
  railway clerk.

  “This correct information, sir, enabled me to follow them here
  without their knowing it. Falcon and Croft took a trap over, and I
  came in a fly--but I warn you that they may be here bent on mischief.
  I sent an earlier warning to Miss Dove not to go out without
  protection.

                                                                 “S. W.”

“Oh, if this is from S. W., then the first was from him too,” said the
squire. “How very clever and sharp, to be sure. I wish we had such men
down here.”

“Warner is a born genius in his line, squire.”

“I believe he is, and who was the London detective?”

“Oh, that was the opinionated man who wanted to arrest my friend the
captain--his name is Hawksworth.”

“You told us about him at dinner, captain,” said Miss Dove.

“Marvellous!” exclaimed the squire; “but it is getting late, Edith. I
hope the lady has recovered.”

“I hear Lucy just coming, papa.”

“The lady is fast asleep, miss, and is better,” said Lucy in reply to
her mistress’s question.

“Then let us all follow her example,” said the squire, showing his
guests to their rooms.




CHAPTER XIV

SURPRISING DISCLOSURES


The quiet and interesting conversation that Harry Goodall had privately
with Edith Dove whilst her father and the captain had gone to see if
Falcon and Croft had been captured was neither sought nor expected.
Edith, when alone with the aeronaut, had thought it only natural and
right to offer her sympathies to the welcome messenger from the clouds,
whose form and face seemed familiar, and whose recent services she not
only appreciated, but at the same time felt that she was under the
influence of gratitude and fascination, which she did not attempt to
suppress, until a sudden ray of light, falling on the aeronaut’s face,
revealed to her something which she hesitated to impart to him, in case
she might be mistaken. The idea, however, which had come into her head,
induced her to be more reserved until she had made further inquiries
of the young lady who was with Lucy; for, if she were mistaken in her
conviction as to where they had previously met, she might repent of
being unduly precipitate.

Harry Goodall, it may as well be at once confessed, was, from the
moment he met Miss Dove, the victim of love at first sight; besides, he
could not rid himself of the notion that he had seen Edith somewhere
before, as her pretty face appeared to be slightly familiar. This
was the prevailing thought of the aeronaut as he conversed with Miss
Dove, and afterwards he reproached himself about the utter stupidity
he had shown in not having long before sought the acquaintanceship
of the heiress of Wedwell Park, who now seemed to him so attractive
and lovely; her very eyes beamed with a strange tenderness which was
bewitching, and when a more subdued expression crept over her face, he
thought perhaps her mind had wandered back to Falcon, who, according to
the doctor’s insinuations, was paying his addresses to her.

It was whilst these similar fancies occupied their thoughts as to
their having met, that the squire and the captain were heard to enter
the hall. This ended their chat, and led to the reading of Warner’s
statement, which tended to confirm Miss Dove’s suspicions. We must,
however, leave the unsolved difficulty for the present, and freely
admit that Doctor Peters was right in one respect, viz., that the
aerial visitors had certainly created a great stir, and had induced
the Doves to question the pretensions of the financier, which were
evidently bold acts of audacity, intended for mischievous objects, for
Falcon had been drawing largely on the squire’s fortune to launch and
uphold an enterprise which had been considered most promising, until
it assumed a doubtful aspect after the arrival of the balloonists. By
this time, the doctor also knew that the financier had been partially
exposed, and was not successful with Miss Dove, who never had liked him.

After the attempt on the aeronaut’s life, Miss Dove saw, with a woman’s
instinct, that the wounded aeronaut had a bitter enemy, and with
this conviction she went to the room occupied by Miss Chain, on the
following day, with a view of getting information.

Miss Dove first spoke of the pleasure she had felt in making an ascent
by moonlight, and regretted that it had been spoiled by a mishap,
though only a slight one, as it had fortunately turned out to be,
Doctor Peters having made light of the injury.

“Then it is not serious?” said Miss Chain; “I am so glad to hear that.”

“No, it is not serious as a personal injury, but it casts a dark shadow
somewhere, and that is why I wanted to know how you were, and whether
you felt equal to having the chat which I proposed last evening when I
left you?”

“I am not quite up to it just now, I fear,” said the lady, “but I
daresay I shall be presently, Miss Dove, when I will send and let you
know.”

With this assurance, Miss Dove left her for a while.

In the meantime, Miss Chain saw Lucy, who advised her not to mention
the gentlemen’s names, even if she was called upon to disclose her own,
as it was a fact that neither the squire nor Miss Dove had any idea who
the balloonists really were, though, said Lucy, in her honest, blunt
way,--

“It is sure to come out, Miss Chain, so that it might be as well to
state that you had been helping the aeronaut in his work, and it being
completed, you were ready to take another situation.”

“Yes, Lucy, that would be truthful, and perhaps the right thing to do
under the circumstances.”

Miss Chain thanked Lucy for her advice and kind attention, and then
Lucy brought out a photograph which she thought Miss Chain had not
seen, as she was not very well on the day it was taken.

“Tom gave it to me,” said Lucy, “and it was given to him by the
gentleman who took it at the Crystal Palace. Very likely it will be
more useful to you than to me.”

“And may I do as I like with it, Lucy?” asked Miss Chain.

“Yes; show it to Miss Dove, if you like.”

“I recollect now, Lucy,” said Miss Chain, “that I had been upset about
the time you refer to by the spy, whose face I am certain I saw in the
photo below on the dining-room wall last evening, and which upset me
so.”

“Yes, I have heard about it, but don’t you worry, for as sure as you
sit there, Miss Chain, you are on the right path to overthrow your
adversary. Take my word for that, and I can tell you plainly that Miss
Dove never encouraged Mr Falcon; it is my master, the squire, who has
been taken in by him, and if I had your chance, Miss Chain, I would let
my young mistress know that you believe Falcon to be the same person
who imposed on you and your poor mother in Boulogne. However, I had
better go and tell Miss Dove that you are coming at once to see her.”

When Miss Chain entered the room, Miss Dove took a seat near her, and
commenced by saying,--

“I want to ask you the meaning of your remarks about the portrait in
the dining-room last evening. You were very much excited, and you
muttered to yourself, ‘He looks as he did in Boulogne, where he took
the watch and chain.’”

“I do not recollect saying that, Miss Dove.”

“Indeed, you did, and you also said, not remembering, perhaps,
that I was there, ‘To see him parading himself in disguise as he
did at Sydenham.’ Now, I want to know,” continued Miss Dove, “if
these remarks had any reference to what had occurred, or were they
delusions?”

“No; they were true, and I was trying most likely to relieve my
feelings as to what had actually taken place.”

“Poor girl! I can see that you have a grievance at heart which may yet
be redressed. I only wish that you would stay on with me here as my
friendly companion, for I should so much like to have someone with me
who was sympathetic and straightforward. Do you think you would like to
remain with me?”

“I would gladly do so, but, to be candid, I should wish first to
consult that estimable gentleman, the aeronaut, for I would not slight
him on any account.”

“I am much interested in all of you,” said Miss Dove, “and should like
to know the history of your troubles.”

“Then I will tell you frankly, Miss Dove, and will begin by saying, no
matter what your religious views may be, that I believe we were wafted
this way for some wise and useful object.”

“I join cordially in that sentiment, and whatever your history may be,
I do believe that you have been hardly dealt with.”

“My name is Chain, and my mother and I retired to Boulogne after the
death of my father, because our small fortune, saved by teaching and
thrift, was only just sufficient to keep us comfortably. In an evil
hour, a fine financier made our acquaintance under the pretence of
paying his addresses to me. He ultimately induced us to trust him with
all we possessed for re-investment in a new enterprise, as he said that
it was one which would pay a much higher rate of interest.”

“Miss Chain!” exclaimed her interrogator, with no small agitation, “you
are not only enlisting my sympathy for yourself and your mother, but
you are, without knowing it, suggesting that my dear father may have
been similarly entrapped, and by the same man, possibly; but pray go
on, I may profit immensely by what you are telling me.”

“Then, in an unfortunate hour, Miss Dove, we handed over all that we
had in the bank, when the villain absconded with this, together with
my father’s watch and chain, which, from their peculiar construction,
I feel sure I have seen him wearing at Sydenham; and the photo in your
dining-room represents the same man with the identical cable-laid watch
chain conspicuously portrayed.”

“What astonishing coincidences and villainy you are bringing to light,
Miss Chain; but I will not stop you in case Mr Falcon should come
before I can warn my father that it is too late.”

“I must further tell you that, owing to our state of poverty, we
started off to London to earn our daily bread. There we made the
acquaintance of Trigger, Lucy’s sweetheart, and he and your maid
introduced us to the aeronaut, who most kindly engaged us to do
needlework for him.”

“Yes? and where, please?” asked the squire’s daughter, with an excited
look in her eyes, which quite astonished Miss Chain.

“It was at the Crystal Palace that he saved us from starvation,”
replied Miss Chain; but she was sorry to see that Miss Dove was so much
moved by her story that she was crying and much upset.

On recovering herself, Miss Dove exclaimed,--

“How good and noble of him to act in that way.”

“I am glad to hear that you think so, Miss Dove, but I can give you
further proof of his having acted the good Samaritan.”

“Let me tell you, Miss Chain, before you go on, I discovered last
evening that I and the aeronaut had met before.”

“Yes, and I will remind you very easily, Miss Dove, when and where you
did so,” went on Miss Chain, as she drew from her pocket the photo
that Lucy had given her, representing the rescue of the lady from the
Crystal Palace lake by Harry Goodall.

Miss Dove, rising in great excitement, took a steadfast gaze at the
view, and exclaimed,--

“Yes, an accurate reproduction! There is no mistaking that figure,” she
emphatically observed, with her finger on the figure of the aeronaut,
as she dropped on to a lounge in a seemingly fainting condition.

Miss Chain flew to the bell rope and pulled it so energetically that
the squire, who was with Doctor Peters, his patient and the captain,
hurried up to his daughter’s sitting-room, and on finding out the state
she was in, called in the doctor who had followed the squire.

“What, dear Edith, is the matter?” asked her father.

As he spoke, he noticed the photograph on the lounge, as did Doctor
Peters, who was now by her side, and exclaimed,--

“What, more ballooning? Oh, dear, dear! When will this end?”

The squire, who was thinking of his daughter, did not take much notice
of what the doctor said, but endeavoured to call his attention to
Edith, who was slowly recovering herself, and exclaimed,--

“Don’t, my dear father, trouble the doctor.”

While the squire and he were examining the photo, the aeronaut and the
captain had begged to be admitted, and had come over to Miss Dove and
were saying a few kind words to revive her, not knowing the cause of
her attack, though Harry Goodall was reminded, by the appearance and
size of the photo, of that unexpected incident in his uncle’s presence,
when the ship photographer was announced, but he little thought that it
was actually one of the three photos that had been taken of the trial
trip of his air-ship on the palace lake.

“You can now plainly see, doctor,” said the squire, pointing to the
photo, “that my views are proving sounder than yours hour by hour; but
I thought it was Falcon who saved my daughter’s life?”

“Of course you thought that the financier rescued her, for did he not
tell you so in my presence,” cried the doctor. “You forget, however,
squire, that sensational pictures are not always to be relied upon.”

“That one may be,” retorted Miss Dove, in a firm voice, “for I declare
that Mr Falcon never put forth a finger to save me. It was this brave
gentleman who did so,” cried Edith, as she grasped the aeronaut’s hand
and drew him down by her side.

And while a fresh interchange of tender and grateful feeling was
proceeding, the squire, Doctor Peters and the captain were intently
looking at the respective figures in the photo.

Presently the squire exclaimed, with an undisguised amount of sarcastic
sharpness,--

“Falcon’s attitude is characteristic of the man. Don’t you think so,
captain?”

“I have only just seen it for the first time, Squire Dove,” replied the
captain, “and have not heard of the occurrence previously.”

“Then yours will be a weighty testimony,” said the squire. “Can you
recognise the persons here represented? Look at them, and give us your
frank opinion.”

“There sits Mr Falcon!” exclaimed the captain, “with his hand on the
side of a boat and his head bowed down--I’ll swear to him; and there
is my friend, the aeronaut, lifting a lady out of the water, who,
unmistakably bears the strongest resemblance to your daughter, squire.”

“Do let us retire below stairs,” cried the host. “The three invalids
will excuse us, I know, for I am not sure that I can summon patience
much longer to haggle with the doctor and his obstinacy.”

“I shall not give in by seeing a mere picture,” cried the doctor.

“Then you must be totally blind to ocular demonstration,” said the
captain, moving off with the squire.

But when once they had reached the hall, Squire Dove felt that he had
no desire or patience to listen to any further observations that the
doctor might wish to offer, so he was politely bowed out, when the
squire and the captain had a confidential chat until they were joined
by the aeronaut and Edith Dove, together with Miss Chain, whose name
had not been divulged as yet, for Edith was not well enough to enter
upon the thrilling disclosures she had listened to that morning. She
remembered, however, that a kindly-disposed policeman had told her at
the Thicket Hotel that she was saved by a scientific gentleman, whose
name was not mentioned.

But by way of a timely diversion, the squire proposed a stroll in the
park, to see how the balloon was getting on, for, said he,--

“The more Doctor Peters raves against it, the greater liking I seem to
have for it.”

Here, while the inspection of the balloon was going on, the gamekeeper
drew their attention to a paragraph in a local newspaper, which
contained a reference to the performance at Haywards Heath. It was as
follows:--

  “A FLYING VISIT.--The extraordinary experiment lately made by a
  Professor Scudder and his director, at Haywards Heath, with the
  object of showing a new mode of flight, has led to inquiry respecting
  the two individuals who so suddenly appeared in that part and who
  disappeared so hastily. All sorts of conjectures have been formed as
  to who they are and where they came from--fortunately a snap-shot
  by a local photographer was taken just before the flying machine
  started, when the quasi director lost part of his disguise and
  Scudder was about to start. This photo has, we hear, been secured
  by someone who is of opinion that the adventurers are not after all
  Dutchmen, but two persons who have been obtaining money under false
  pretences, and whose pretended flight through the air is thought to
  be a mere ruse to draw off attention to a more extended ‘flight’ by
  land and sea. Further enquiries are being made, we hear.”

“Quite right, too,” said the squire, “for they may turn out to be--”

“Hush, papa! the doctor is coming, and may as well be kept in ignorance
of this suspicion.”




CHAPTER XV

WANTED BY WARNER


“Tired Nature’s sweet restorer” had not been indulgent to the visitors
at Wedwell Hall, the reason perhaps being that they were conscious of
having upset the quiet routine of the Doves by having shaken their
faith in Falcon, but they did not do so designedly to cause mischief,
but rather to expose an outrageous impostor.

The aeronaut was the first to make his appearance the next morning,
before the squire or Miss Dove were astir, and the lady’s maid, Lucy,
took this opportunity of saying a few words to Harry Goodall, her
former employer. Amongst other things, she told him that Miss Dove and
Miss Chain were fairly well, and that they had been talking about him
and saying many sweet things about him; but the aeronaut passed the
matter by and asked if there was any news of the runaway rascals.

“Lor’, sir, haven’t you heard that the men who attacked the cook are
supposed to be burglars, and have taken to flight?”

“No, I had not. Tell me about it. But I want to hear first of all about
the Crystal Palace photograph. How came you to bring that forward,
Lucy?”

“Well, sir, I gave it to Miss Chain for a good motive. I wanted to
endear my mistress to you and to Miss Chain, if the truth must be told;
but don’t you mind what the doctor says, Mr Goodall.”

“I cannot be indifferent to his remarks, Lucy, for he may be in some
way mixed up with Mr Falcon.”

“Not he, sir. I should say that the squire had been taken in by Mr
Falcon in one way and the doctor in another without their knowing it.”

“That’s not a bad idea, Lucy, and in return for it I must tell you, as
I have already hinted to Tom, that I shall very soon make known here
who we are.”

“I am glad to hear you say so, sir.”

“Talking about burglars, Lucy, I thought I heard someone moving about
just now.”

“It is your friend, sir, coming down,” said the girl, as she looked
towards the stairs.

“Come in, captain; I am getting the early news,” whispered his friend
Harry, whilst Lucy left the room.

“And how is the wound?” asked the mariner.

“It is healing like a dog’s!”

“By Jove! You would have been done for if the balloon had not been
hauled down just at the right moment.”

“Yes, I’ve no doubt my life was attempted, but the sudden dip saved me.
Had we remained stationary a second longer, I don’t suppose I should
have been talking to you now.”

“Well, look here, Harry, now that we are alone, I wish to know whether
we had not better declare ourselves before I leave, as you are clearly
on the best of terms with Miss Dove, and more so, I should say, than
if you had introduced yourself to the squire and his daughter as a
merchant’s clerk, according to your uncle’s programme?”

“And my father’s, too, Link; don’t forget that.”

“Quite so.”

“The truth is, captain, we’ve no time this morning to concoct any
definite plan of campaign, as we appear to all intents and purposes to
be the agents of destiny, and I propose that we act and speak simply
according to circumstances as they turn up. I agree, however, that we
ought to make known our names--perhaps something may occur to enable
us to do so with good grace--so now we had better inquire what is the
latest report by Warner and the gamekeeper; we must also see to the
balloon and Trigger.”

“I am at your service, Harry, and by-the-bye, I hope that you don’t
disapprove of my attentions to Miss Chain?”

“That entirely depends, Link, upon four words--‘Do you mean it?’”

“I do, old friend, most certainly.”

“Come along, then, for we’ve a lot to unearth and unravel.”

It seemed that Trigger and Bennet had ascertained that a tall and a
short man had been seen to leave the plantation and go up the lane
towards the Hall when Miss Dove was in the balloon car, soon after
the rifle was fired most likely--afterwards the smaller man was seen
to call at Doctor Peter’s house while he was absent in the park.
This information was obtained after the local policeman and Warner
had failed to find anyone escaping in the direction of Newhaven; but
the fugitives might have gone off in a northerly direction, although
Warner thought that they would without doubt make off in a southerly
direction, with the intention of leaving the country by the mail
steamer--that is, if they did not escape through the air, for they both
answered to the description of two men who had been trying to fly from
Haywards Heath.

Meanwhile Tom Trigger had not been idle in looking to the safety of the
balloon, which had been made snug by attaching heavy weights to the
netting, which he procured from the gasworks, and additional pipes had
been placed on the ground in case a supply of fresh gas was needed.
The assistant had also taken other precautionary measures, in the event
of a strong wind springing up, and he suggested the advisability of his
going up to the Crystal Palace to bring down all the bags and other
tackle for holding down the balloon. At the same time he would try to
find out from the Sydenham police authorities what Warner was to do,
and how long he could stay, as he was trying to be on the track of the
fugitives, though he promised to be back to confer with the squire
after he had organised a sharp lookout down Newhaven way, where he
would not leave a stone unturned in co-operating with the local police.

The squire was in the park much earlier than was his wont, and he was
accompanied by his daughter and Miss Chain, who was better in health,
though she appeared to be very quiet and thoughtful.

Doctor Peters was about this time entering the lower gate of the
park, and he went up to those who were grouped near the balloon and
congratulated his patient on being out so early, and as breakfast time
was drawing near, and the postman was observed on his way to the Hall,
it gave him a good excuse to accompany the party back, and to look at
the aeronaut’s head. When the examination was over, and a favourable
report given, the squire, who had a local morning newspaper in his
hand, said,--

“You had better sit down with us, Peters, for I have just caught sight
of an article about the balloon descent at Wedwell Park. This is what
they say:--

  “‘An ascent of an apparently scientific character was made a few
  days since from Sydenham by an amateur aeronaut, whose name has not
  transpired, accompanied by an officer in the mercantile marine and
  a young lady, about whom a great deal of interest had centered, in
  consequence of her having been defrauded, as it is alleged, by a
  swindling financier, not unknown, too, at a certain Hall in Sussex,
  and in other parts of the country. It is also rumoured that the young
  lady, as well as the amateur aeronaut, had been shadowed and annoyed
  for some time by the same financier in the neighbourhood of the
  Crystal Palace.

  “‘The aeronauts were at one time in Essex, but owing to a strong
  upper current of a north-easterly kind, they were driven towards the
  south coast, when they dropped on the estate of a highly-respected
  Sussex squire, where the balloon, to please the latter, made some
  captive ascents. Then a strange thing happened, for on the occasion
  of the last ascent, when the squire’s daughter was in the car, a
  rifle was discharged at the amateur aeronaut, the missile passing
  through his hat and wounding him on the head. The squire’s medical
  attendant pronounced the wound not dangerous, but the question of
  motive suggested itself, and there is reason to conclude that the
  attack was made by none other than a flighty financier, assisted
  probably by a confederate. Colour is given to this supposition, as
  this “gentleman” did not keep his appointment of dining with the
  squire.

  “‘The last information we had was to the effect that the fugitive
  financier and his servant were wanted.’

“I am truly glad that the report stops there,” exclaimed the squire.

“And that no names are mentioned,” added Miss Dove.

“Nor the precise locality,” said Miss Chain.

“Still,” cried the squire, “Falcon hasn’t a leg to stand upon; and now,
doctor, you are at liberty to say what you like, but mind what you do
say, in case you have to eat your own words.”

“What I have to say is this,” replied the doctor, still unconvinced,
“You have favoured us, squire, with a most libellous paragraph, for
which the reporter, whoever he may be, deserves to be prosecuted,
as the statements are built on hearsay, and traduces a man whom we
regarded, until the balloonists presented themselves, as a friend; and
how do we know but what the balloonist’s financier is as different from
Falcon as chalk is to cheese?”

“What? After a sight of his photos and his shadows at the Crystal
Palace, besides personal evidence of an uncontrovertible character?”
asked the squire, somewhat irritated.

“Doctor Peters!” exclaimed Miss Dove, “I really haven’t patience with
you! In the face of such evidence as we have had, it is folly to
persist in bolstering up an untenable position.”

“And I will take leave,” said the squire, “in support of my daughter’s
spirited remarks, to put one question to you.”

“Well, let me hear it, squire.”

“Did you send a telegram to Falcon, at Sydenham, after the balloon came
down here?”

“I did, Squire Dove, believing that he was straight and true to you, to
your daughter and to me.”

“Then you have been the victim of an impostor, and why not own to it?”

“I am not going to do that at present, squire, for how do I know but
what Falcon may walk in and scatter like chaff before the wind all the
unfair conclusions that have been arrived at in his absence?”

“Falcon will never appear here again,” said Miss Dove. “However, there
is a knock at the door.”

“Come in,” cried the squire. “Oh, it is the pilot. How now, Trigger?”

“The policeman and Warner have returned, squire.”

“Tell them to come in and make their report,” said the squire, and
turning to the men as they entered, he asked, “Have the suspected men
been seen or captured, officer?”

“Not at present, your worship. They have been seen, and may have gone
north, while we took the Newhaven route.”

“You naturally inferred that they were leaving the country by the
Dieppe steamboat. I think that you, Warner, have been in this
neighbourhood before?”

“I have, your worship, but the last time I came down I was with Mr
Falcon and Croft, in the same train with them from Sydenham.”

“But where had you seen them previously?”

“I have seen them at the Crystal Palace more than once, your worship. I
had to lock up Croft for trespass, and his master I found at a doctor’s
house near here in a skeleton cupboard.”

“What do I hear? You are surely romancing, Warner?”

“No, squire, he is not,” cried Doctor Peters. “I admit that last
ludicrous allegation to be true, for Mr Falcon, after he was shot by
a poacher, as he said, came to consult me as to the injury he received
in his back, at the same time this man, Warner, if he really is a
detective, did obtain admission to my consulting-room, and as the
cupboard was not occupied by the skeleton, Falcon stepped in there
instead of going into the next room.”

This statement caused general laughter.

“How very odd, doctor; but you cannot gainsay that Warner was certainly
a detective on that occasion, and a very expert one too. Ha! ha!”

“I think, squire,” said the doctor, “if the poacher who shot at Mr
Falcon could be produced he would throw a different complexion on the
affair.”

“He stands in your worship’s presence!” said Warner.

“Indeed! Who is he?” said his worship.

“Come forward, Trigger,” cried Warner, with a covert smile.

“I am no poacher, your worship,” replied Tom, as he stood forward,
“though I confess to having shot at, and having hit, a man in the Essex
marshes who wilfully fired the gas in my employer’s balloon. And I
assert that that man was Mr Falcon, who at the time was disguised with
spectacles, false beard, sandy wig and reversible coat.”

“How do you know, Trigger, that he was Mr Falcon?” asked his worship.

“He was the same person who had annoyed my master and Miss Chain at the
Crystal Palace, and the same who did _not_ attempt to rescue the lady
from the lake, but left that honour for my guv’nor to perform.”

“Any further evidence?” asked the magistrate.

“Only as to the photo in your dining-room, your worship, besides the
one I gave to Lucy. They are both faithful likenesses of the man I shot
at and hit in the back.”

At this critical moment, when the doctor seemed somewhat confounded and
rose as if he could bear it no longer, two young women, Lucy and the
doctor’s servant, Maria, were disputing as to who ought to catch the
squire’s eye to have the first say after Tom Trigger had done.

“Come forward, Lucy,” cried the squire, who had noticed the
altercation. “What is it you wish to say?”

“If you please, squire, I only wish to say that my Tom is no poacher,
and as to the photo that the doctor turned his nose up at, I can swear
that it was taken on the banks of the Crystal Palace lake, and is a
faithful portrait of Mr Falcon, who made no attempt to rescue Miss
Dove.”

“And please, squire,” said Maria, “may I speak?”

“Certainly; and what have you to say?”

“I ought to have said so before, your worship, Doctor Peters is wanted
immediately by a lady who is very bad.”

“Hurry off, doctor,” said the squire.

After the doctor’s exit, Maria asked, when she saw that her master had
left, whether she could state something that took place at their house
during his absence in the park looking at the balloon. It had been
preying on her mind, but she did not like to make it known, because she
thought the doctor would not believe it, and would blame her.

“As your master has just left, Maria, I would reserve what you have
to state until he is present, and then speak out fearlessly if it is
anything that would concern him or any of us here assembled.”

“I don’t know whether it would amount to much, your worship, but I
will follow your advice--though people will talk about those who are
suspected.”

“Don’t you talk about them, Maria.”

“I don’t know, your worship, whether they are one and the same party.”

“To whom are you now alluding?”

“To these air-flying robbers, squire, who are said to have come from--”

“Stop, my good girl, and pray confine yourself to what can be proved.
Don’t go beyond that. Certainly I have heard with regret that two
insane Dutchmen are supposed to be at large with evil intents.”

“They do seem to have method in their madness, your worship.”

“You may think so, Maria, but your master and others may hold quite
different Views. Here, however, we must stop, and not at present
enlarge our borders.”




CHAPTER XVI

ON THE TRACK


Some hours later, when Doctor Peters had returned from attending his
case, the squire resumed the inquiry and at once called on Maria to
make her proffered statement.

“If you please, sir,” said the girl, “not long after the balloon
ascended by moonlight, and the gentleman was shot at, a little man
came to Doctor Peters’s house to ask for the medicine that was made up
for him. I was not aware that anything had been prepared for him, and
while I was asking a question I noticed that he held a handkerchief in
his hand which smelt of something strong. I just recollect his going
upstairs, and then I must have become insensible. When I came to he
had disappeared and the front door was closed. I did not say anything
to the doctor about it, as I thought he might say I was hysterical and
that my head was full of fancies, but when I heard the evidence at the
last meeting, I thought it my duty to state what had happened.”

“Another far-fetched delusion, squire,” cried Doctor Peters. “Young
girls are given to go on that way.”

“And so are old gentlemen,” replied the magistrate. “Anyway, I cannot
blame your servant for declaring herself as she has done; and at no
distant date, perhaps, we shall be able to judge whether this item of
evidence should be regarded as a dream or something worth listening to.”

“Nothing in it, squire, take my word for that,” replied the doctor.

“I hope it will turn out so,” retorted Maria, smiling with an air of
confidence, however, for she had elicited the fixed attention and
sympathy of those who were present.

It was noticed that although the doctor pooh-poohed his servant’s
statement, it seemed that he did so very half-heartedly, and several
times showed signs of being ill at ease.

At this juncture Warner stepped up to Mr Goodall and gave him a letter,
stating that it had been left with him for the aeronaut just as he rose
from the Crystal Palace in his balloon, and that he had not had an
opportunity before this of delivering it.

Having perused the letter, the aeronaut stated that he would read it
aloud, as it had considerable bearing on the case into which they were
inquiring, although it was from his uncle.

“Is your uncle an aeronaut?” asked his worship.

“Oh, dear no, Squire Dove.”

This is how the letter ran,--

“My dear nephew--”

“Stop a minute,” interrupted the doctor. “What is the name of the
writer?”

“William Goodall, who is my uncle,” replied the aeronaut, “and the
letter is addressed to me, Harry Goodall.”

“Then, my good sir,” observed Doctor Peters, brusquely, as he looked at
the aeronaut, “how is it, if you are related to the brothers Goodall,
of whom I happen to know something, that you did not make yourself
known to the squire and to Miss Dove when you dropped among us in
Wedwell Park?”

“It was because I am a Goodall that I withheld my own and my
companions’ names, as my uncle, like you, doctor, hates ballooning, and
has but a poor opinion of flying. He warned me never to visit Squire
Dove until I had renounced my hobby.”

“Ah! it would have been well for you, young man, if you had obeyed your
uncle,” cried the doctor.

“I beg to differ from you there,” said Harry Goodall; “for the
concealment of my name has been a Godsend to me.”

A remark which made Miss Dove lower her eyes, while a becoming blush
clearly showed that she reciprocated the sentiment of his remark.

“Now proceed, Mr Goodall, if you please,” said the magistrate.

“Certainly, sir.”

  “MY DEAR NEPHEW,--Should you see Captain Link at the Crystal Palace,
  will you ask him to proceed to Gravesend with all haste, and there
  await the arrival of my ship the _Retriever_, as her captain died
  suddenly yesterday, and, as Link is a single man and will not be
  returning just yet in the _Neptune_ to Sydney, he might be glad of
  a little change. Link will find his traps on board, but he must get
  to Gravesend with all speed, and proceed direct to Cherbourg, as the
  _Retriever’s_ cargo is due there already.

  “Have you seen anything of Mr Falcon, Harry? Should he cross your
  path, at once apprise the police, requesting them to keep close
  on his track, and let them acquaint me of it, as I have obtained
  positive evidence since Captain Link left me to visit you at the
  Crystal Palace, that this precious financier is an arrant impostor.
  Instruct Link to start as soon as you can.--Your affectionate uncle,

                                                      “WILLIAM GOODALL.”

“First of all I should like to say,” said the squire, “how very pleased
I am to make your acquaintance, and offer my warmest welcome to Wedwell
Park. And now, Mr Goodall, will you favour us with the name of your
charming fellow-voyager?”

“Oh, I can do that, father,” said Edith Dove, “as Miss Chain, for
that is the lady’s name, has told me all about herself. I had better
repeat part of what Miss Chain said. ‘A portion of my history,’ she
stated, ‘appears to have some bearing on the recent episodes which have
occurred. My mother and I, when residing at Boulogne, were robbed of
our little fortune by a financier, then styling himself Filcher, and
now known as Filcher Falcon.’ This Miss Chain has disclosed. I can
quite understand his not daring to face us all here.”

Miss Chain’s remarks seemed to have a disturbing effect on Doctor
Peters, for he got up and left the room; and as no one had further
remarks to make the squire dismissed Warner and the servants, omitting
any allusion to what Maria said about air-flying robbers.

No sooner were the squire’s investigations over than the mariner,
who was anxious to leave for Cherbourg, was complimented, questioned
and surrounded by the Doves and Miss Chain, with a view of affording
him any assistance he might require, while everyone expressed regret
at his sudden departure. The host ordered his carriage to take the
captain over to Lewes to catch the first train that would take him to
Gravesend.

Captain Link promised that he would see them again after his trip to
Cherbourg, and Miss Dove kindly promised that they would take care of
Miss Chain; while the squire told the captain that there would always
be a knife and fork for him whenever he could manage to return to the
park.

Presently the carriage drove up to the door, and, with many
handshakings, the captain departed, accompanied as far as the station
by the ladies, while Harry Goodall remained behind with the squire, at
his special request.

The carriage had no sooner passed out of the lodge gates, than the
squire requested Harry Goodall, Warner and the local policeman to
appear in his private room, to hear his views as to the suspects.
One of the results of this conference was that the squire ordered a
dog-cart to convey the detective to a brother magistrate, and to the
police authorities at Lewes, as he wished to take fresh steps to have
Warner provided with warrants for the apprehension of Falcon and Croft,
and then the detective could proceed instanter to Newhaven, to arrest,
if possible, either or both of the fugitives. In the meantime, the
squire would not be idle in his co-operation, as he considered that it
was almost certain that the delinquents would try to leave the country
by the Newhaven route.

Harry Goodall, whilst the squire was writing his letters, proposed
that they should go down the park and ask Bennet if they had heard of
anything fresh, and decide, before Trigger left for the Crystal Palace,
to fetch the bags and traps, whether they had better not let the gas
out of the balloon? But when Squire Dove reappeared on the scene, he
emphatically said,--

“If I were in your place, Mr Goodall, I would do nothing of the sort,
for I cannot forget that it was through you and your balloon that I
have been rescued from the brink of a precipice, and as long as you
like to keep it where it is, you have my sanction to do so and to take
in as much gas as you require. Any way, don’t strike your colours
to-day, or the doctor will fancy that we are fearing an attack by
Falcon and Croft, or anyone they might appoint to do us an injury.”

Complying with the squire’s wishes, Trigger was sent off to Lewes
with orders to bring down all the aeronautic tackle from Sydenham, as
it looked as if they were about to have a change of weather, and, if
so, the balloon would not be safe with the rough pieces of iron slung
on the net-work. And Trigger took a letter to the palace secretary,
expressive of his master’s regret for the unpleasant affair connected
with his last ascent, when Captain Link was mistaken for Mr Falcon by
the detective Hawksworth. Harry Goodall begged also for an extension of
leave for Warner “on very important business.”

Lucy went down just in time to see her sweetheart off, but, as Bennet
said, “She did look sadly!” and no wonder, for she had a matter of
considerable importance on her mind, for Saunders, the cook, having
recovered consciousness, had just imparted to her that she distinctly
saw two men disguised making their way out of the library not long
after Miss Dove made the balloon ascent by moonlight, when Wedwell Hall
was left with scarcely anyone to look after it.

Some time after hearing this startling intelligence, Mr Goodall and the
gamekeeper hurried up to the Hall, and there met the squire’s carriage
returning with the ladies from Lewes. The aeronaut told the coachman to
delay taking the horses out, as a second journey might be required.

Harry Goodall having communicated what Saunders had stated, everyone
crowded into the library, when a rapid examination of the bureau proved
that it had been burst open and a large number of negotiable securities
had been carried off.

“I feel certain, sir,” said the cook, “that the thieves were that
gentleman who has been here so often lately and his little servant!”

“Are you sure, cook?” asked Miss Dove.

“Yes, miss, I feel quite certain, though I fancied at first that they
were gas men, as their faces were black like, but I am sure about them
now by their figures.”

“I fear it is too true!” exclaimed the squire, who dropped into a chair
and seemed quite overcome.

“My dearest father!” cried Edith Dove, “don’t look so broken-hearted.
Have courage! We may yet recover the property. Don’t you think so, Mr
Goodall?” as she looked over at the aeronaut with a smile which would
have nerved anyone to hope and action.

“Do pray cheer up, sir,” said Harry, “and let us consult as to what is
best to be done.”

Edith then sat down at her father’s feet, and after some discussion,
Goodall suggested that they should wire forthwith to Lewes and Newhaven?

“Yes, a bright thought! Come with me, brother Goodall, to the
post-office. I feel a better man already from what you have offered to
do. Order the carriage,” he said, turning to Bennet; “we can go on to
Lewes after telegraphing.”

“Your carriage is already at the door, squire,” said the gamekeeper.

“Good, for there is not a moment to be lost. Be sure, Bennet, you do
not say a word about this to Doctor Peters, or anybody else for the
present.”

“You may rely upon me, squire, in that respect.”

“Shouldn’t we be able to detain Warner at Lewes,” asked Harry Goodall,
“if we hurried on without stopping?”

“Capital thought,” said the squire. “We will do so, and press on at
once.”

“Jump up by the coachman’s side, Bennet, and urge him on,” said the
squire, as he entered, in a more resolute spirit; “but stop at the
post-office first, Bennet.”

“Pardon me, Squire Dove,” cried Harry Goodall, “wouldn’t it be wise to
give your local telegraph office a wide berth?”

“Good again, Goodall! What a far-seeing man you are! Yes, we may save
time and stop Warner by so doing.”

The carriage drove off rapidly, the ladies waving, cheering good-byes.

“That was a wise precaution, brother!” exclaimed the squire, as they
rolled along _en route_ for the Sussex county town, “and now that we
are alone, what about your suggestion, which no one shall know about?”

“To be candid, squire, I would rather, before I unfold it, ask Warner’s
opinion as to its practicability. If he approves of it, I might join
him in carrying it out. If he disapproves of it, we may leave him to do
his best to co-operate with other detectives at Newhaven. But should he
agree with my proposal, I will explain the entire scheme to you, and
you shall have the casting vote as to its adoption.”

“I hope you are not going to humiliate yourself by acting personally as
a detective, Goodall?”

“Oh, dear, no; but don’t be too sensitive on my account, squire; but I
have just one idea that might possibly facilitate matters--at anyrate,
I will broach it to Warner, as I have every confidence in that man.”

“And so have I,” said the squire. “How opportunely he delivered at the
fittest moment your uncle’s letter, to the discomfiture of the doctor.”

“Indeed! that was well put in, wasn’t it, squire?”

“A masterpiece indeed!”

The squire’s carriage had only just entered Lewes, when Bennet was
seen to be gesticulating on the box, and was heard to cry out “Hi!” to
someone in the street. It was Warner coming from the railway station,
after having seen Trigger hurrying off to Sydenham.

“Get out,” said the squire to Harry Goodall, “and have your chat as
soon as possible, while I go to the police authorities. The carriage
shall come back and bring you up to me; perhaps, if you agree, Warner
may be in time to push on to Newhaven by the first train, as the local
police there will not allow the fugitives to escape, and no boat leaves
for Dieppe until the tidal train departs.”

Highly delighted was the squire to see the aeronaut and the detective
together when they came up in his carriage with an air of confidence
and hope, as if they were of one mind as to Mr Goodall’s plan of
recovering the lost property.

It was agreed that a telegram should be sent to Newhaven, and that
Warner should proceed by the night tidal train. As there was time to
spare, Warner proposed returning to the park to interrogate Saunders.
And although the squire gave Warner leave to do so, he could not
refrain from a mischievous smile at the detective’s zeal in wishing to
get the cook’s version of her experiences from her own lips.

“Don’t allude to our little scheme before the ladies,” said the squire,
as the carriage approached the Hall; “and as to you, Warner, I think
you had better go round and see Saunders while you are in the humour.”

“Thank you, squire, I will avail myself of this early opportunity of
picking up what I can, and will return.”

“You needn’t hurry for an hour at least,” said the squire, as he
entered the Hall.

Harry Goodall availed himself of a word at parting with the detective.

“Simon!” he said, “you are a brighter and wiser man than ever I took
you for. Keep everything dark, except your liking for the cook. At the
same time, if you can pop in and interview Doctor Peters, do so, as I
heard privately that the old fellow is in some trouble about what his
servant alluded to at the meeting this afternoon.”

“Quite so, sir. I understand.”

“And you think our proposed plan of action will do, Simon?”

“First class, sir; that is, if we keep silent, Mr Goodall.”

“Everything depends on that,” were the detective’s parting words.

Of course the rumours referred to by Maria and others about the flying
men and their quixotic performances at Haywards Heath, were not
overlooked by Warner, who thought the fugitives might have harboured
the idea of escaping through the air, or of carrying off by that route
some fair Sussex maiden. However, Warner had arrived at the definite
conclusion that Falcon and Croft had quite abandoned any scheme of
making their exit by an aerial contrivance, and felt certain, even if
Hawksworth might have been doubtful on the subject, that the financier
and his confederate would make for Newhaven, and rely upon a sea
passage across the Channel.

Warner heard that Hawksworth had been down instituting inquiries at
Haywards Heath; but the palace policeman had no sooner endorsed Harry
Goodall’s proposed plan for Warner’s line of action, than the latter
decided upon making straightway for the South Coast, and of there
going to work, not only in the immediate vicinity of the railway
stations and the place of departure for the steamboats, but his
observations would extend beyond--as far as Seaford.




CHAPTER XVII

ALARMING INCIDENTS


Who could blame Simon Warner for being behind his appointed time with
the squire, when he had to interview the doctor? Warner found him in a
much more amenable spirit; he seemed almost persuaded that he had been
victimised, and went so far as to impart some special information to
the detective on the condition of silence. Doctor Peters adding that he
would himself inform the squire when and how he thought most fitting.

On Warner’s return to the Hall, the squire took him round the library,
and gave him a list of what had disappeared, with the numbers of a
roll of bank notes. This done, Warner took leave and proceeded on his
mission.

Meanwhile Edith and Mr Goodall were strolling together through the park
in the direction of the balloon on the excuse of inspecting it, but
more probably to enjoy each other’s society.

“Do you think the balloon in any danger should a storm arise?” asked
Edith.

“Indeed, I do not,” replied the aeronaut, confidently, “for it is
strong and sound.”

“The sky has certainly a darkened aspect,” said Miss Dove.

“It has,” replied the aeronaut; “but there will be time before
nightfall to take extra precautions, and I shall personally see to it,
as Trigger is away, and I perceive the barometer is falling.”

They found the balloon in such a state of repose that the watchers
strolled leisurely around it, but Bennet and his staff of assistants
were at hand and promised that, if there was any important change
during dinner, he would advise them.

“Then come along,” cried the squire, “for it is for once in a way past
our regular time, and all seems so quiet that we had better make the
most of our time.”

At dinner there was an artificial show of composure about the little
party of four, for their thoughts naturally kept reverting to the
robbery, while the strange stillness had by no means a soothing effect
on the nerves. Presently there came a vivid flash of lightning,
followed by a heavy peal of thunder, then a second larger flame of
forked fluid descended with an alarming roll of fearful reverberations
among the leaden clouds.

“I must go down,” said the aeronaut, pointing through the windows to
a shower of leaves, which had been blown from the trees. “There is a
strong wind rising. It’s that I dread, not the lightning.”

Goodall was accompanied by his host to the door, and as a rattling
shower of rain was pouring down, the aeronaut was provided with a
mackintosh, umbrella and wrap, and away he ran, while the squire
ordered a closed trap to be got ready, and soon followed his young
friend.

When Harry Goodall reached his balloon, he found that Bennet and his
helps had attached extra weights to the net-work, but the silken
globe was now greatly agitated and swerving to and fro, presenting a
remarkable contrast to the tranquil condition in which he found it
before dinner.

“There’s another lively flash,” cried the gamekeeper; “and, my word,
how the thunder rolls. It is not improving, and hark at the pattering
rain on the top of the balloon! It won’t force open the valve, will it,
Mr Goodall?”

“Never fear, Bennet; I always take precautions to prevent that. The
only thing I fear is that the iron weights may dash up against the silk
and make holes.”

“Steady the weights, my lads,” cried the aeronaut, “as much as possible
when she makes those heavy lurches. Hold on all! There, she plunges
again, and don’t be alarmed, my men, she is in a sheltered haven--it
is the back winds that catch her underneath and cause those ugly flaps
on her crown.”

“My dear Goodall!” said the squire, on his arrival, “this frightful
wind will soon put an end to your balloon, I fear!”

“Not if we keep on nursing her as we have done, squire.”

“Pick yourselves up, my good fellows!” said the aeronaut to two or
three men who were rolled over among the half hundred weights as they
swung among their legs and threw them on their faces. “I hope no one is
hurt!”

“All right, sir, don’t mind us, we sha’n’t let go!”

“Stick to her, boys! Mind your legs, Bennet, and pray, squire, mind
your hands; the cords will cut them if you hold so tight.”

“Never you mind me, Goodall,” cried the squire, “it is all hands to the
pumps; I can plainly see that, and every ounce of steadying power is an
object.”

The huge silken mass was at this time plunging and swaying like a
restive horse, and had lost much of its symmetry; it looked as if it
were impossible that it could weather the storm. How it stood such
a buffeting amazed Harry Goodall, for the birds at roost were being
driven out of some of the trees and sought shelter in distant shrubs,
whilst, ever and anon, the topmost branches, in shattered wisps of
leafage, came circling down among the men, and lodging for a few
seconds on the dome of the balloon, when they would be caught up afresh
and whirl about until a heavier gust swept them out of sight.

“Don’t we hear a sound of wheels in the lower road?” asked the squire.

“Yes, I hear Trigger’s voice,” said Mr Goodall. “Run, two or three of
you, my lads, and help in the bags.”

“There are three loads of sand in the barn,” said the squire, “and I
suppose you will substitute your sand bags for these weights?”

“Yes, squire; I shall at first put the bags between the iron weights,
so as to add a couple of tons more power--then, when we get a lull, I
will take off the metal.”

“The wind drops, I fancy,” said the squire.

“It does a little, and that will enable some of us to fill the sacks.
Bear a hand, Trigger, and go with Bennet into the barn where the sand
is, but mind those guns, pistols and ammunition in the balloon car. The
gamekeeper thought we should be prepared for a night attack. Show Tom
where your air-gun is, Bennet.”

“You don’t expect any worse attack than we’re having, do you sir?”
asked Trigger.

“I mean an assault by those rascals, who may be badly disposed towards
us. A lot has happened since you have been away. I can tell you about
it presently if this lull of the wind holds; however, get your bags
filled and hooked on, in case of more fitful gusts,” said the aeronaut,
and then, turning to Bennet, he continued,--“The squire has returned to
the Hall to order down refreshments and to soothe the anxiety of the
ladies.”

“We’ll soon bring the bags, Mr Goodall,” shouted the gamekeeper. “I’ll
place the car and the firearms in a snug corner, sir.”

“Do so, but leave the firearms inside, Bennet, though I’ve no fear, in
weather like this, that any persons with malicious intentions will hang
about the park now after what has happened. They are more likely to be
hovering about the coast, either at Newhaven, Folkestone or Dover, so
as to clear out of the country.”

“No doubt Warner has his eye on them by this time, sir,” observed the
gamekeeper. “However, we’ll get to work, Mr Goodall, now it is a little
quieter.”

“Yes, sharp is the word in case of squalls.”

The squire was soon seen to be hurrying down with some of his servants
and a truck laden with tea, coffee, cold meat and a lot of creature
comforts, with sundry bottles of more stimulating liquids and lighter
drinks for the balloonist.

As it was comparatively calm when they came to hand, the squire
proposed that, if half the numerous hands could be spared, they should
go into the spacious barn close by, and partake of something to eat
and drink, the next shift going in when they reappeared.

Acting on this proposal, all hands were fortified for night work, and
they were told to run over, a few at a time, to the gasworks and dry
their clothes in the retort house.

Bennet asked the squire and Mr Goodall if they would like to go over
to his cottage to talk, as Trigger had brought letters from Sydenham
and Lewes, which, in the bewilderment of the gale, he had omitted to
deliver.

Soon after midnight there was such an improvement in the general
outlook, coupled with a steady rise in the barometer, that the
attendants were allowed, in divisions, to withdraw into the adjacent
lane and smoke their pipes. Shortly after, the squire had a quiet chat
with Mr Goodall, and then he proceeded to the Hall. But Harry Goodall
returned to the balloon, where he found the gamekeeper awaiting him.

“Now look here, Bennet,” said Mr Goodall, in an undertone, “we don’t
want that inquisitive doctor in the way, so I must find a means of
getting rid of him, though, to be candid, he is too outspoken and blunt
for that sort of thing, but I think it is very likely he has been
made a tool and a fool of by that arch-demon Falcon and his crafty
confederate.”

“I do believe you’re right, sir, and I only hope that Warner has got
them right and tight by this time.”

“They’re likely to double or cut some unexpected capers, I should say,
Bennet. Warner mustn’t expect they will go direct into the Dieppe or
short sea-route steamers.”

“At that rate, sir, he is as likely to miss them as not.”

“Quite possible, unless he is uncommonly sharp and on the alert.
Recollect that we shall have, when daylight breaks in, to fill out with
gas the loose folds of the balloon, and get her dry. You run over to
the works,” he added, turning to Tom, “and say I shall want as much
gas as they can spare to make up for what we’ve lost, as she will soon
throw off the wet if she is more fully distended, and afterwards we can
get her into the sun’s rays.”

“Please to recollect, Mr Goodall,” said the gamekeeper, “that most of
these men, who are agricultural labourers, will have to leave us at six
o’clock.”

“I’ll not overlook that, Bennet, and now,” continued the aeronaut
turning to Trigger, “won’t you get some rest?”

“Not I, sir; you have most need of rest.”

“That’s just what I think, Mr Goodall,” said the gamekeeper, “and if
you go and shake down for an hour or two in my cottage, I will call you
if it comes on to blow again, or when Trigger has taken in gas.”

“Say at five o’clock, sir,” said Tom Trigger.

“Good, I will follow your excellent advice, but be sure you do call me
by five o’clock.”

“You may rely on that, sir,” said Bennet.

As dawn broke, the scud and the clouds were moving swiftly under the
influence of a N.N.W. wind, though it had gone down near the ground, so
that Trigger and the workmen were enabled to complete the inflation;
but Tom did not attach the car, nor would he move anything out of
it, not even the store of provisions nor the firearms, until his
master came out of the cottage, so that Bennet determined to rouse
him for fresh orders, for it was a lovely morning, and, as the clouds
cleared, the power of the sun began to dry the balloon. Meanwhile,
the workpeople had some breakfast served out to them by Bennet, who
anxiously awaited the appearance of the aeronaut.

When Mr Goodall arrived, he begged Trigger and Bennet with all haste to
attach the car to the balloon, but not to remove anything in it until
he told them to do so. “And you can fix on my water drag and the other
contrivances, Tom; you understand I daresay?” said the aeronaut, who
espied the old doctor hobbling in with two sticks and looking like a
man with a grievance that he wanted to ventilate.

Tom Trigger obeyed orders, but he knew not what to make of his
master’s movements. Something was up, he mumbled to Bennet, which he
was not aware of himself.

“However, he may be going to have a flutter. I should not be at all
surprised at that,” said Trigger, “though the wind at present does not
blow in a very fair quarter.”

“Indeed, no,” replied Bennet, “it is for the coast.”

Harry Goodall at this moment was looking bright and full of action.
He replied in a friendly way to the doctor’s greeting, who had seen
the top of the balloon much higher than formerly above the trees
and wondered whether the aeronaut was going to take flight; but as
Mr Goodall regarded his presence just then as an impediment to his
movements, he said,--

“The balloon had got so thoroughly drenched during the storm, that she
was now about to be dried, and must be so placed, and elevated, if
necessary, that she could get the full power of the sun’s rays.”

This last declaration was quite enough for Tom Trigger; it was a tip
which he at once understood.

“But how is the head, my dear sir?” asked the doctor.

“It is vastly better, thanks; but I wish I had another box of your soft
salve, doctor.”

“I will stump away and fetch some,” cried the doctor. “By the way, Mr
Goodall, I had no idea that you were connected with old acquaintances
of mine. I want to talk with you--”

“If you are able, get the salve first, please.”

“My dear sir, willingly; I see you are very busy, and will reserve my
tale, which will make your hair stand--”

“That will do for the present, doctor. We must soon release these
workmen. Excuse my offhandedness just now.”

“Certainly, certainly; I will fetch the salve.”

No sooner had the doctor moved away than he noticed Lucy, who came from
the cottage, sidling up to Trigger, when a slight freshening of the
morning breeze caused the balloon to roll round in a graceful sweep,
which afforded the aeronaut a reason for requesting that Lucy should
keep farther away, and allow Trigger to do his bidding.

Harry Goodall then joined Tom, Bennet and one or two others, who were
attaching his machinery to the side of the car. Then he took Tom
Trigger a little aside, and said,--

“Slip your overcoat and things in the car; mine are already there. You
have not, I hope, disturbed anything I placed myself therein.”

“No, sir,” said Tom, “and I begin to tumble now as to what you are
after, but I wish I had known earlier.”

“It is quite as well as it is, perhaps,” said Mr Goodall. “I do not
want to let the gas out in the park, and you see what a fine chance
there is for drying her aloft.”

“Drying her, or trying her, which am I to understand, sir?”

“You know quite enough, my trusty Tom, for the present. We must be off
in ten minutes’ time. Never mind saying ‘Good-bye.’ And here, Bennet,
request these men not to shout or make the slightest noise, as I am
off for a short trip; and you won’t mind trusting your firearms in
our care, as the taking them out might create some astonishment. You
understand, Bennet?”

“I begin to, sir. But what am I to say to the squire and the ladies?”

“Tell the squire all that took place truthfully. He knows what my
intentions are.” Then, turning to Tom, the aeronaut said,--“Is the
ballast ample, Tom? Just give me a lift into the car, Bennet.”

“And ease up this rope,” cried Trigger, “when Mr Goodall gives the
word.”

“Now, then,” said Mr Goodall, “ease away the rope, Bennet.”

“Throw one bag of sand out, Tom. She will do now. We’re off, Bennet.”

“Please, sir,” cried Lucy, “may I speak to Trigger?”

“The moment he returns, you can, Lucy,” said Mr Goodall, as they rose.

“She mounts beautifully over the trees, Trigger.”

“She does indeed, sir,” said Tom, who, although Lucy was crying, kept
his eye in advance of them.

Every workman raised his hat or cap as the balloon ascended, with the
most obedient and respectful silence. Looking towards the hall, Mr
Goodall saw Squire Dove at his open bedroom window waving both hands,
while a voice in the lane was heard to cry out,--

“Stop, my good sir, where the dickens are you going to? I’ve brought
the salve.”

“Thanks! Good morning, doctor; I’m due near Newhaven in less than
twenty minutes, and could not possibly wait longer.”

“Depend upon it,” cried Lucy, “they’re gone to do something more than
dry the balloon. I’ll give it to Tom for not letting me know what they
are up to.”

“Tom knows no more than you or I do,” said Bennet. “I can vouch for
that.”

Next came the doctor, struggling and limping along on his two sticks,
while he flourished one of them in the air at Bennet, in denunciation
of Mr Goodall’s sudden flight.

“This must have been a pre-arranged insult,” he said to the gamekeeper.
“I had something important to tell him, and my opinions have changed
entirely with respect to his affairs. He doesn’t know, perhaps, that I
have been robbed?”

“He knows that the squire has, and Mr Goodall may be after the thieves,
for all we know,” said the gamekeeper.

“That is just what I am doing, Bennet. Don’t you see my trap in the
road? I’m going now to telegraph to Scotland Yard.”

“But for what we know, doctor, the aerial voyagers may be in pursuit of
the fugitives?”

“Believe me, Bennet,” cried the converted doctor, “if I thought young
Goodall would come across and capture those villains in whom I, too,
have been grossly deceived, I would leave him all I have.”

“What a change has come over you, doctor!” exclaimed Mrs Bennet.

“I own to that,” said the doctor, “and I will tell you why and all
about it soon, but I must go now and wire, for there is no believing
anybody in these days. But see, Bennet, the balloon is fast driving
towards Newhaven.”

“Yes, she certainly is,” said the gamekeeper, “and I trust that none
of us will tell the young ladies or the squire, for to-day at anyrate,
what we have been talking about, as it would be cruel to increase their
troubles at a moment like the present.”

After the doctor had bowed assent to this suggestion, he hurried away.
The balloon was then travelling coastwards.




CHAPTER XVIII

WAITING FOR NEWS


When Edith Dove and Miss Chain met on the morning after the storm, the
weather had much improved, and they eagerly awaited Goodall’s joining
them at the breakfast table, to hear how the balloon had fared during
the night. Their surprise was, therefore, very great when the squire
came in and announced that they might look for Goodall in vain, at
anyrate for the present, as he had ascended soon after sunrise, the
atmosphere being so inviting that he preferred to dry his balloon in
the sun’s rays instead of retaining it in the wet park.

“And do you think, my dear father, that Mr Goodall would act in that
way without any intimation of leaving us so suddenly?” said Edith, with
some degree of feeling.

“He left us most affectionate remembrances,” replied the squire, “so
Bennet tells me, for I have been down the park and have only this
minute returned.”

“Did Mr Goodall go alone, papa?”

“Oh, dear no, Trigger was with him, but he made no mention, that I
heard, as to how far he was going, and it was amusing to hear how he
gave the doctor the slip. Peters, it appears, came in very early and
was prying about, wanting in a more friendly spirit to know this, that
and the other, when our friend Harry, in a humorous way, sent him off
on a fool’s errand. After breakfast, we may get some news as to where
they descended.”

“They will have to make,” said Miss Chain, with evident anxiety, “an
exceedingly short trip.”

“I should think so,” said Edith, “considering that the wind blows
towards the sea. Surely they would not drop near the Channel.”

The squire, who wanted his breakfast, replied curtly,--

“I daresay they will; but pray, Edith, do not let us enter upon
fruitless speculations, as we may hear at any moment that they are
perfectly safe.”

“I’m not at all sure that this ascent of Mr Goodall’s was not
premeditated,” said Miss Dove, seriously, “for I noticed when Mr
Goodall and you, father, left us in the carriage for Lewes, that you
both were evidently hatching some mysterious plan, and I passed a most
restless night in consequence, but I hope that no wild adventure has
taken place.”

“My dear, Edith, if we fail to receive good news before dinner, I will
readily grant that I was wrong for not advising Harry Goodall to let
out the gas before the storm came on,” replied her father, evasively.

“How I wish it had been,” said Edith, who looked at Miss Chain, with
anxiety depicted on her face.

“I knew,” added the squire, “that our brave young friend would
sooner--well, I won’t say what. Be patient. It will all be right in the
end, depend on it.”

“Now, don’t take a gloomy view of things, dear Edith,” said Miss Chain,
“for, even if he were to attempt to cross the Channel, I have heard Mr
Goodall say that if ever a balloon was fitted for service of that kind,
his new silk balloon was the one. But you are eating nothing, dear.”

“Thanks, but I don’t seem to have any appetite.”

The squire did not choose to explain himself further, although he
inferred from Miss Chain’s demeanour that she, to some extent, shared
Edith’s fears.

Soon after Doctor Peters arrived, and before he could be stopped, he
blurted out that he “had news in more ways than one, and had just had
a message from a friend who lived near Newhaven to say that a balloon,
reported to have ascended from Wedwell Park, failed to effect a landing
near the South Coast, and had been driven out to sea.”

“I, for one,” cried the squire, with great vehemence, “am not in the
least alarmed by what you state, Peters, though I do not thank you
for offering this intelligence to my daughter instead of to me, as
it savours of the pessimism which is your ruling complaint, and I
don’t believe a word of it, and can assure you that I have thorough
confidence in the aeronaut’s skill and feel assured of his safety.”

“That is all very well, squire, if the balloon has sustained no injury.”

“I insist upon it, Peters, that just now, in my daughter’s presence
you keep your croaking tongue within your teeth, and if you in any way
further espouse Falcon’s cause, or anyone belonging to him, I shall
hold you guilty of being connected with him in some way or other.”

“Hold me guilty, squire! why, I am now quite on another tack, being in
possession of fresh information.”

“You may or may not be, but if I thought you had in any way
communicated with him since he has proved himself a villain, I would,
notwithstanding my position, turn you out of the house!”

“Stop, stop, squire. A threat to commit a breach of the peace from a
magistrate--that is too dreadful to think about.”

“Is it? Well, you had better take yourself off with your forebodings of
evil. You would raise the blood of a saint.”

“Indeed, squire, I was just going to tell you how I have been myself
treated by Falcon.”

But Squire Dove, whose back was up, ignored the remark, regretting,
however, when he was cooler, that he had not heard the doctor out. For,
as Edith Dove said, “Falcon might have done the doctor some harm; he
had certainly something on his mind.”

“If so, Edith, we shall soon hear about it; and one can always feel and
express regret for hasty behaviour. If I have done Peters the least
injustice, I shall be the first to apologize.”

At length the post arrived, bringing an important letter from Mr
William Goodall, Harry’s uncle. It was addressed to the squire, who
read it out to the ladies with a view of diverting their minds from
the disagreeable impressions which had been produced by the doctor’s
ill-timed visit. The letter was as follows:--

  “MY DEAR DOVE,--I was much pleased with your account of the
  sensational version of my nephew’s unpremeditated visit to you, which
  appeared in a Sussex newspaper.

  “I was truly glad to hear that Harry Goodall made a favourable
  impression on you and your daughter, and that he and his companions
  had been invited to remain for a time at Wedwell Hall.

  “The fact of Harry having made your acquaintance through the medium
  of his balloon, was indeed a great surprise to me, especially as I
  had told him that you and Miss Dove would never receive him as a
  visitor whilst he was addicted to ballooning; and when I heard that
  it was in that character he won your good opinion, I was delighted
  though astounded at the news, as it convinced me that ‘Nothing is so
  certain as the unexpected.’

  “And it seems that it was through Harry that you were led to finding
  out what a designing rascal that man Falcon is, so that I cannot
  reasonably take my nephew to task for pursuing his favourite pastime,
  after all is said and done. As I shall be down your way shortly, I
  will do myself the pleasure of calling at Wedwell Park when we can
  talk over Falcon’s misdeeds.

  “I myself happen to possess a photograph of the lake incident at the
  Crystal Palace to which you allude. It was through my advice that my
  nephew suppressed the circulation of it, but I detected the likeness
  of Falcon in the boat, though I was not sure as to the identity of
  your daughter being the lady who was rescued by Harry Goodall. I now
  congratulate Miss Edith and yourself on the event, and I thank you
  for your polite attention to Captain Link and to his lady friend,
  whom Miss Dove is so much charmed with. I am expecting to hear of
  Link’s arrival in Cherbourg, and am glad to say that he stands very
  high in my estimation, and is the most trustworthy captain in my
  employ.

  “I will not dilate on the good opinions formed of him in Sydney, as
  the revelations I shall have to make in reference to Falcon, will be
  connected with the ship _Neptune_ which Link commanded.

  “At this moment, I cannot fix the day on which I hope to see you, as
  it will depend upon the arrival of a steamer with two passengers on
  board from the Cape. With kind regards to yourself and Miss Dove,--I
  remain, faithfully yours,

                                                      “WILLIAM GOODALL.”

“I think after that letter,” said the squire, “we shall have to await
philosophically the full tide of events. In the meantime, I shall be
glad to know, Edith, if you have heard anything from Lucy that will
throw any more light on the situation.”

“Well, my dear father, Lucy did not think that Trigger knew what was
his master’s real aim in ascending. He must have been hurrying on the
preparations for what appeared to be a complete voyage of discovery.
But she had no hint from Trigger, and the gamekeeper could not fathom
what their objects were or their destination.”

“No, I don’t suppose they had,” said the squire.

“But it must have been something, papa, beyond the mere drying
process, as they were equipped as if for an aggressive expedition.”

“I do hope, dear,” said Miss Chain, “that you were wrongly informed
there. They might have had instruments for observations and
meteorological research.”

“Oh, they had very different implements from what you mention, my
dear,” said Miss Dove. “There were strange-looking appliances outside
the car, and within there were guns, pistols, an air-gun and I don’t
know what besides.”

“Let me,” said the squire, “say a word about that part of the story.
Bennet explained that he had provided firearms in case any attack was
made on the balloon by night, and these weapons were for safety placed
in the car; but when Mr Goodall resolved upon baulking the doctor’s
curiosity, he would not wait to have the balloon pulled down for that
purpose, and I think, under the circumstances, Harry was right to slip
cable, for the doctor might have terrified you more by any reference to
the firearms than he did by his message that a balloon had been seen
going out to sea.”

“Tell me, Miss Chain, were there firearms in the car when you ascended
from Sydenham?”

“Oh, dear no, I am quite sure there were not.”

“How now, Lucy?” asked the squire, as the maid entered with a letter.

“It is from the harbour-master at Newhaven, sir. Shall the man wait for
an answer?”

“Yes, by all means. This is what he writes,” said the squire:--

  “‘I am glad to say that the detective from Sydenham and Wedwell Hall
  has been on the lookout for the two men wanted. One was seen to go on
  board a foreign vessel which was lying off the port. He was a little
  man, but had a bag with him. Have you dispatched a balloon from the
  park? If so, it is going across the Channel splendidly; it made a
  temporary halt at Bishopstone. Please reply.’

“Yes, certainly I will, and thank our friend at Newhaven for such very
welcome news.”

“Welcome news, papa?”

“Why not, Edith, it is far more reassuring than the doctor’s version.
What say you, Miss Chain?”

“It accords with Mr Goodall’s views as to the competency of his
balloon.”

“Just so,” cried the squire. “I regard it as a promising instalment of
good news, and shall look for better in the morning.” Then turning to
Lucy, the squire said,--“Tell the bearer that if he will sit down I’ll
speak with him.”

After the squire had gone below, Miss Chain said,--

“I really do sympathise with you, Miss Dove, and cannot understand
what Mr Goodall is bent on accomplishing.”

“He is perhaps attempting to cross the Channel with the idea of
pursuing the fugitives in France, but to me,” said Miss Dove,
hysterically, “it seems fearfully venturesome.”

“Let us hope it will all end well,” said Miss Chain.




CHAPTER XIX

UP ALOFT


After Harry Goodall and Tom Trigger had left the park and Doctor Peters
in the lurch, a grand view burst upon them as the balloon mounted to an
elevation of over two thousand feet, when the rays of the bright sun
enlivened the Sussex scenery and began to dry the saturated silk.

Magnificent, however, as the change proved, the voyagers had no time
to dwell upon such matters, for the open sea lay before them, and they
were drifting towards it rapidly and in the direction of Newhaven. Up
to this time, Goodall had kept his real project from Trigger, but now
that the aeronaut and his assistant were alone in the empyrean, there
was no longer any reason for concealing from Tom that they were not
aloft solely for the object of drying the balloon, but principally to
carry out the daring and novel idea of pursuing the fugitives, Falcon
and Croft, should they have crossed over to Dieppe by the steamer from
Newhaven. And certainty as to this Goodall expected to get from Warner,
whom he had arranged to pick up and take in his balloon somewhere near
the coast by preconcerted signal. This was the scheme concocted by
Harry Goodall, and listened to with approval by the squire when they
journeyed to Lewes, though, of course, it was not finally settled until
Warner had agreed to it.

Harry Goodall, soon after passing the Sussex Downs, in pursuance of
this piece of aeronautic strategy, lowered a long trail rope to check
the speed of his balloon over the marshes, so that he could pull
up with less difficulty as they drew near to the coast. And on his
side, Simon Warner was fortunately enabled to expedite the aeronaut’s
efforts on noticing the balloon by picking up a fly returning from
the station. This was a special bit of good luck, as the fly man,
Richard Trimmons, knew the country intimately and had done a little
ballooning himself. Directly they caught sight of the balloon, they
commenced signalling to Mr Goodall to anchor near Bishopstone Church
where there was a sheltered spot. Here, two other Seafordites, viz.,
Blucher Gray of Pelham Place, and Mr Charles Strive, a retired chief
officer of the Blatchington coastguard, presented themselves, and they
very obligingly, together with others, rendered valuable assistance in
securing the balloon.

On this being effected, the detective rushed up to Harry Goodall with
great glee and shook hands.

“Well, Warner, what is the news?”

“F. has baffled us, sir, up to the present time, but he is believed
to be not far off. C. has escaped in a fishing-lugger. I saw him put
off in a boat, but the French craft weighed anchor immediately and set
sail, so that I could not overtake him.”

“I don’t know of whom you are speaking,” said Mr Strive, “but I saw a
man put off to the lugger, and I noticed him particularly, as I saw
at a glance that he was not a pilot from his gait, let alone what he
carried. The little fellow had a black leather bag, not at all what a
seaman would have owned. I was on the old battery fore-shore; he seemed
to be afraid lest the sea should get into his bag.”

“I was too far off to notice that,” said Warner, “but I am sure he was
Eben, Mr Goodall.”

“We have picked up important news, Tom,” said the aeronaut to Trigger.

“You’re just about right, sir,” said Tom.

“And you are ready to go along with us, Warner, just as you are?”

“I am fully prepared, sir, and have my warrants, handcuffs and
dusting-irons in this bag, and am ready for one or both of them if we
can see them on the other side, or overhaul them on the high seas.”

“Jump in, then, while Trigger puts out ballast equal to your weight.
What do you scale, Warner?” asked Mr Goodall.

“About eleven stone, sir.”

“Then chuck out six sand bags, Tom, when I tell you, but, first, I
should like to thank our friends here for their kind assistance.”
Turning to them, he remarked “that they could do him one or two little
favours if they would be so obliging.”

“Name them,” said Mr Strive.

“In the first place, please to bring in that grapnel, Mr Gray,
and if you are going to Newhaven, I will thank you to call on the
harbour-master and just tell him what you have seen; and if you can
pick up and tell him anything more about the Wedwell Park fugitives, do
so.”

“I read something about _them_ in a Sussex paper,” said Blucher Gray.

“What sort of man was the other one who is missing?” asked the fly man,
Trimmons.

“A fine, tall-looking man,” said Harry Goodall, “the very reverse of
the fellow we are now in pursuit of.”

“It strikes me very forcibly,” said Blucher Gray, scratching his head
in a reflective way, “that the captain of the French lugger is a person
I know.”

“Then just dot his name down on paper,” cried Warner.

“Now, can you tell us, Mr Strive,” asked the aeronaut, “if that lugger
had anything peculiar in her rig and cut by which we may be better able
to make her out from aloft?”

“Certainly. Here I will sketch you an outline of her general
appearance, and the number on her sails, sir, and I don’t fancy that
you will see many fishing luggers crossing the Channel so soon after
last night’s gale. You will make her out, therefore, the more easily;
but with the fresh northerly breeze she will be a long way ahead of
you.”

“Precisely. I am allowing for that, Mr Strive, but a balloon will
travel very fast in this fresh upper current into which we shall soon
mount. Perhaps one or other of you may hear of the other party who is
wanted. And do, please, accept my best thanks for your valuable hints,
gentlemen,” said Harry Goodall.

“Come here, fly man,” said Warner to Dick Trimmons. “I haven’t paid you
for the lift you gave me. Take the coin now, and please tell me who the
gent was you took over, as you told me, so early to Newhaven?”

“I don’t know his name; he is a stranger in Seaford, but now I come to
think of it, he is uncommonly like the tall gentleman you’re after.”

“How was he dressed?”

“He looked like a yachtsman, sir.”

“There is a yacht lying in the harbour,” said Mr Strive, “but I don’t
think Trimmons’s fare was anyone you’re looking for.”

“Don’t know so much about that,” said Warner.

“I’m not myself sure,” said Harry Goodall, “but you can mention the
fact to the harbour-master, Gray.”

“All right, sir.”

“I would recommend you now, gentlemen,” said Mr Strive, “to make the
most of your time, and if we can hear anything that will assist you,
either of us can give information where it will be thankfully received,
without mentioning localities or names.”

“A good idea,” cried Mr Goodall. “And now, do you happen to have a
road-side inn near here?”

“Yes, sir, there is the ‘Buckle’ close at hand, a nice, snug, road-side
house of call.”

“Well, please to refresh these helps with this sovereign’s worth of
whatever they like best to ask for. I suppose they have teetotal drinks
at the ‘Buckle?’”

“Yes, all sorts there, sir.”

The ex-chief officer then cried out,--

“Three cheers, you men!”

And away went the aeronaut in excellent spirits. Warner, when asked how
he liked the outlook and the pace at which they bowled along, replied,--

“Not so fast, is it, Mr Goodall?”

“It may not seem so to a novice,” said the aeronaut, “but if you keep
your eye on those two full-rigged ships in the distance, and then look
back at the ‘Buckle’ Inn, Warner, you will soon see the rate at which
we are moving.”

Warner had his own binocular, and used it as if he were accustomed
to aerial reconnoitring but the increasing extent of the sea-scape,
together with the rapid movement of the balloon from the shore, and the
nearer approach of the shipping in their eight miles distance from the
coast, soon convinced the anxious detective that they were going much
faster than he supposed.

Tom Trigger kept his eye on Warner, while Harry Goodall studied his
map and instruments, not that Tom thought their bold passenger would
fall overboard or funk, but he feared that the aerial detective might
tread upon the armoury which had been stowed away so carefully beneath
a canvas covering before they left Wedwell Park.

Presently Warner’s attention was called to the firearms by a timely
caution, for Simon kept turning himself round with a jerk, first on
one tack and then on another, as if he could scarcely make out whether
they were going back to the Sussex coast or making straightway for
mid-Channel.

It was owing to the occasional rotation of the balloon on her own axis
that he became so bewildered, and he acknowledged, when the cause was
explained to him, that one required a knowledge of practical ballooning
to decide the line of advance in the air. It was the rotary motion
which made him lose sight of the two ships which he was searching for.

“They have disappeared,” said the aeronaut, in a joke.

“Foundered do you mean, sir?” asked Simon.

“No, but they have turned up behind us.”

On looking back towards the coast, Warner found that they had passed
over them in about twenty minutes from the time they left. He then
knew that they were going ahead without giving much sign as to their
progress, so far as motion or unpleasant sensation were concerned.

“If that is the way big ships are dodging about,” cried Warner, “I must
keep a sharp lookout for the lugger.”

“Yes,” said the aeronaut, “and I am instructing you how to do so,
though I have no expectations of seeing her yet.”

“If they show fight, sir, we shall present a fine target.”

“Decidedly, Simon, but we shall be able to defend ourselves, and then,
you know, we have the advantage of a more elevated position, even if we
close with them. Besides, you see those outside contrivances?”

“What about them, Mr Goodall?”

“Oh, a great deal. That canvas bag, or cone, can be lowered so as to
check our speed, or bring us to on the water, and the other device
is to deflect our course, either one way or the other, if we have to
drop upon them when the wind is not altogether fair; and then the two
combined will furnish us with a fair amount of steering power, if once
we lower near the sea, but without dipping into it, Simon.”

“That may be another vital point, sir,” said the detective.

“Yes, and I will tell you of a third. In the event of a scrimmage, we
can hoist that lee-board to afford us protection.”

“That may be one more vital consideration, sir. But dare we use
firearms under a balloon? Would not the gas become ignited?”

“If we were to blaze away up here it might, but not if we board the
lugger under fire, Simon. Do you follow me?”

“I do, sir, without turning a hair, and only wish we had the chance of
doing so.”

“You will clearly understand, my plucky friend, that should we swoop
down a few thousand feet and come to close quarters, the gas in the
lower part of the balloon would shrink, because the atmosphere is
heavier on the surface of our planet, and there, if no gas was in the
lower portion of our balloon none could pass out to risk an explosion,
so that down below arms of precision could be discharged in safety.”

“There’s more to learn in ballooning, Mr Goodall, than a lot of people
think of, and I can see now that your plans for guiding might prove,
in actual conflict, more reliable than one-half of these pretended
inventions for flying and dodging about an enemy and destroying London
by dynamite.”

“Yes, it won’t do in aeronautics, Warner, to have much to do with
_flight_, unless you can do it quickly and safely, if I may pun a bit
among ourselves up here, for unless you can make a masterly retreat,
or an unseen approach in a balloon, it becomes, as you said just now,
a sightly target, and is more likely to be brought down by marksmen
from below, than for roving riflemen to hit while aloft, or to do harm
when they are flicking about hither and thither, and having it sharp
themselves, perhaps, between wind and gas.”

“Ay, under the flank, sir, you mean, in a tender and vital part; but
how, then, shall _we_ fare, sir, if we have to chastise the crew of the
lugger if they don’t surrender Croft?”

“If we attempt that we shall be at a low elevation and almost
stationary. Even then I should not think of wasting an ounce of powder
or shot, unless we were first attacked and driven to act on the
defensive.”

“You haven’t told Warner, Mr Goodall,” said Tom Trigger, who had been
thoroughly enjoying the rehearsal, “that besides all sorts of firearms,
we are provided with an air-gun.”

“A most suitable weapon, I should say,” replied the detective, “for
with that you might wing or disable them without making a noise, which
might be a further vital point, sir; but as to myself, Mr Goodall, I
beg to say that I am provided with my own bull-dog.”

“Revolver, you mean, I suppose?”

“I sit corrected, sir, and need not produce my pistol in evidence.”

“No, don’t do that if it is charged, Simon.”

“It is as empty, sir, as my poor stomach, which, to tell you the truth,
Mr Goodall, has had nothing solid in it for fifteen hours at least,
and what with looking for Croft last evening and for the balloon this
morning, I have entirely neglected myself.”

“No doubt Warner is as hungry as a hunter, sir,” said Trigger, as if he
were saying one word for the detective and two for himself.

“Warner _is_ a hunter, Tom, and will do honour to the chase; but pipe
to breakfast--I had forgotten what we had in store--and give Warner a
dash of cognac with a bottle of aerated water to begin with.”

“Never mind the water, Mr Goodall, I am pretty well aerated already;
but what with the sea air and the bright prospects before us, I can do
some of that tempting-looking tongue and the corned beef that Trigger
has produced.”

“They were thoughtfully provided by Squire Dove,” said the aeronaut.

“Then here’s good luck to him and to us all, and may we collar Croft
and recover the squire’s stolen property.”

“We will gladly join in that sentiment,” said Mr Goodall, “and I will
either keep Warner company by feeding, or abstain like Tom Trigger.”

“Don’t talk about my abstaining, sir, for it is as much as ever I can
do to keep my hands off these good things, that is, until I’m told to
start.”

“Let us all hands go ahead then, steward, for I have often read that
Englishmen can fight and work quite as well on a full as an empty
stomach, and I hope that the raised pie and the tongue will not dim our
sight, even if they diminish our hunger.”

“I can see further now, sir, than I could half an hour back,” cried
Warner, as he looked towards Tom to have his glass replenished.

“I know you can see into your tumbler,” said Trigger, “and that it is
empty.”

“Cease firing your jokes, you two, and lend me your glass, Warner,”
cried Harry Goodall, as he shaded his eyes with one hand. “Be serious
now, my lads, for I can see the French coast, and a mist is rising
behind it.”

“The wind over the land seems very variable,” said Trigger. “Look at
the smoke from those steamers, Mr Goodall.”

“Any doubt about our popping across, sir?” asked the detective.

“Not unless the upper current in which we are bowling along changes,”
said Harry Goodall. “In that case we may not fetch the land where we
expected to do.”

“If I can only cast my eyes on Croft, and place the handcuffs round his
wrists, I don’t mind a ducking, sir,” said Warner.

“Don’t forget that he is as slippery as an eel, Warner,” cried the
aeronaut, whose telescope was directed on some small vessel in the
distance.

“It grows darker over the land, sir!” said Trigger.

“It does, Tom, and that is why we shall have all our work to do in
sighting the lugger before the sea fog envelopes her, that is, if she
is, as we suppose, between us and the French coast.”




CHAPTER XX

THE FIGHT IN THE FOG


To be exposed to the risk of disappointment when the intrepid voyagers
were two-thirds of their way across the Channel was terribly annoying.
Their failure or success, seemed to depend on the fickle wind, but
Harry Goodall did not lose heart, being confident in his own prowess
and resources, and being buoyed up with reminiscences of his own
good luck on previous occasions, especially under the circumstances
attending his arrival in Wedwell Park.

Harry Goodall assured his companions, therefore, that all the time the
wind was blowing from a northerly direction, they could pass on into
France, even if they had to allow the fishing-lugger to slip out of
their grasp, as she might do, if Croft saw the balloon advancing in
pursuit of him. The great point they had to study was this, could they
get sight of the French craft before the thick mist that was gathering
over the coast, covered the interval of sea that was before them?

“We are now, I should guess,” said Harry Goodall, “about twelve miles
from Dieppe, and we are inclining to the southward of that port. We
must therefore strain every nerve to ‘spot’ the lugger.”

“Hold on, sir!” cried Trigger. “What do you make of that vessel further
down to our right?”

“By Jove, Tom! Here hand me over Mr Strive’s sketch while Warner looks
at her with his glass. He knows more about her than we do.”

“That’s she right enough,” exclaimed the detective, “and I can actually
make out her number--365.”

“Well, then, that’s the vessel to a certainty, Warner. And, I say, just
look at that steamer, miles away, coming from the north; you see that
her smoke is drifting towards us, which clearly shows that the wind has
changed below. Still, we are holding our own up here, and we are moving
towards France.”

“Do you notice, sir,” said Trigger, “how fast the fog is bearing down
on the lugger?”

“Yes, you’re right; I have been observing that, Tom, for some minutes
past, and I noticed, too, that they have somewhat altered their course.
Depend upon it, Croft has seen the balloon, and is trying to make for
Havre, but we are moving that way too, which will favour the scheme I
now intend to adopt.”

“The lugger,” said Warner, “Will be hidden by the fog in a few minutes,
Mr Goodall.”

“So much the better,” replied the aeronaut, “and my mind is now fully
made up what to do before the fog lifts, and if we drop quickly, but
fail to grapple with her, we can re-ascend into the higher current and
pass into France. I have well calculated our distance, and intend to
descend on the other side of her, in fact, between her and the coast,
because then the easterly breeze below will carry us towards her,
exactly on the side they won’t expect to see us, and should we not
be running absolutely straight on to her, we can make the necessary
divergence by means of the drag and deflector. Do you follow me,
Warner?”

“I think so, sir.”

“Right. Well, now, I will let out gas and make a swoop through the fog,
so be ready, Tom, with the drag, and you, Warner, must stand by and be
prepared to unship sand at a moment’s notice.”

A rather rapid drop was then made, Harry Goodall having calculated
that he would break through the mist at about a mile, more or less,
to the east of the lugger, when the breeze off the French coast would
facilitate his project.

“Smothereens!” cried Warner, “but we’re in the fog now, and no mistake.”

“Silence, there,” enjoined Harry Goodall, in hushed but decisive
tones. “Be ready with the sand.”

A few moments of perfect quiet ensued, then came the word of command.

“Let go your drag, Tom.”

“Out it is, sir, and has struck the water. Ah! she’s checked now.”

“Yes, that’s all right,” whispered the aeronaut, “but we want just a
little more ballast overboard, or we may touch the waves. You see we
have to get a proper equilibrium, Warner, between our ascensional power
and the drag of our water anchor. And now,” said Harry Goodall, with
bated breath, “it is a case of hit or miss. Keep perfectly still, for
we must listen for their voices.”

For some time the party careered along at about a hundred feet above
the waves, which had become less rough, so that the balloon was
comparatively steady, though their motion could be felt as the drag
rose and dipped in the water.

“We can’t see far ahead,” said Warner, in an undertone.

“No, we shall have to be guided by sound, and the less we say, Simon,
the more we may hear,” replied Goodall to the detective, whose
conversational powers were difficult to restrain.

For the next half hour they were in a state of suspense and
uncertainty, not knowing whether they had overshot their mark, or were
going too far north or south to be within measurable distance of the
lugger.

Trigger busied himself with a coil of rope, which he first fastened
to the hoop, and, after doing so, he divested himself of his coat and
boots; he then attached the other end of the rope round his waist,
which amused Mr Goodall and Warner, especially the latter, who wanted
to know what he was preparing for.

“A miss would be as bad as a mile,” whispered Tom. “We might give her a
close shave and yet pass by her. In that case I would go down the rope
and try to hook on to the lugger where I could, being a pretty good
swimmer.”

“A good idea, Tom,” said Harry Goodall; “but you forget that when we
lost your weight the balloon would suddenly spring up, and we might
leave you below. Still, I credit you with being ready for any kind of
service in order to grapple with the lugger. The great point now,”
added the aeronaut, “is to lower the lee-board in the event of being
compelled to deflect one way or other, so we may as well do so at once
and see how it acts. You can pay away that fore rope, my lad, as we can
still draw ahead, and check her if necessary when we like.”

“They wouldn’t hear us do it, would they, sir?” asked Warner.

“Oh, no, or else we should be equally able to hear them. That board,
you see, will cause us to sway to starboard or to port.”

“Hush, sir!” said the detective, in a whisper, “I fancied I heard a
voice not far off.”

“Yes, you’re right, Warner--softly,” added Trigger, “I distinctly heard
someone speaking.”

“And so do I,” said Harry Goodall, under his breath. “They are straight
ahead, and are doubtless all unconscious of our proximity. We are
gaining on them,” said Goodall, after a lapse of a few seconds. “Slack
that lee-board line, Tom. Can’t you see her sails. We must bear more
south, for the fog lifts a trifle, and it won’t do to be seen. And put
your boots and coat on, Tom; you will not have to wet yourself after
all. The great point now is whether she is the right craft or not?
Heave on this line both of you--steady, Warner.”

“That gleam of sunshine will help us,” whispered Trigger.

“I heard a voice just now,” said Warner, “very much like Croft’s.”

“Hush!” muttered Harry Goodall. “Don’t you see the number on her sails
faintly looming in the distance?”

“We’re getting pretty near them,” whispered Warner. “Listen to what is
said.”

“I will pay you extra, skipper, if you land me at Havre.”

“That’s Croft, the Pocket Hercules, speaking, I’ll be sworn, sir,” said
the detective.

“Not a word more! We’re within an ace of running into them, but they
are looking the other way.”

“Are you steering for Havre, skipper?” asked a voice very like Croft’s
on board the lugger.

“I comprend vat you say, monsieur,” said the skipper, “but ve must
vait ontil de mist rise; ve are long vay from Dieppe, and vy you go to
Havre?”

“That’s no business of your’s, skipper; you take me there!” cried Croft.

“Oui, oui, mais mon Dieu! vat is that? A round ship or de sun?”

“By jingo!” cried Croft, “that’s that cussed balloon! Look here,”
exclaimed the fugitive, “I’ll give anyone on board a fiver for a loaded
rifle.”

“My crew no fight or ve may get into trouble,” cried the skipper.
“Pere-haps dat is a varbalon from my contree, it come dat vay from the
east.”

“I know where it comes from, skipper,” cried Croft. “If I only had a
gun--”

“Here you are, monsieur,” said a fierce-looking fellow, who did not
look like one of the crew. “It is fully loaded. And I say,” he added
in an undertone, “I am taking explosives to Paris for the glorious
Anarchist cause. Will one of our little dynamite _bons-bons_ suit you?”

“Yes, brother of my heart,” said Croft, “and if you can chuck it up
high enough, your fortune is made, but don’t blow yourself up in a
vain attempt that will fail. After all, it would be safer to trust to
ordinary firearms rather than these new-fangled concerns.”

On hearing this conversation, Trigger at once loaded the guns, handing
the air-gun to Mr Goodall, who was intent on thinking out a plan to
check the skipper from putting his helm up and so avoiding the balloon.

Harry Goodall’s idea was to lower their grapnel a few feet and give
it a pendulum-like swing so that it should stand a better chance, by
describing a larger area, of coming in contact with the spars and
rigging.

“I’m afraid, sir,” said Trigger, “there will be bloodshed.”

“Well, we must avoid it if possible, Tom,” replied his master.

“Don’t kill Croft,” said the detective; “I want particularly to take
him alive.”

A moment afterwards Croft and the French Anarchist were seen to raise
their guns to the shoulder. A flash followed, and Warner was grazed by
something on the forehead, while Tom had been hit in the leg. And the
rattle on the wicker basket-work of the car indicated that they had
been fired at with slugs.

“I say this is getting a little too hot, Mr Goodall,” cried Trigger.
“Look, sir, at that French villain climbing up to cut away our grapnel.”

“Shall I fetch him down with my bull-dog?” asked Warner.

“I thought you wanted to take him alive?”

“That’s true, sir, but another fellow wants to cut us adrift, and I
shall lose them altogether.”

But Trigger’s blood was up, and before his master could restrain him he
had fired, and immediately a man was seen to slip down the rattlings.

“I’ve dusted him in the stern sheets, anyway.”

“Yes, you’ve marked him, Trigger, but I hope not seriously.”

Then an excited conversation took place between the skipper and the
wounded man, but the aeronauts could not hear the actual words. But
whatever they were, their effect was that the little Anarchist dropped
some package overboard, and then, picking himself up, he retreated
with Croft behind an improvised barricade of cases which were on
the fore-deck of the lugger, while the skipper and his crew grouped
themselves astern, evidently as non-belligerents.

Then Harry Goodall called on the skipper to surrender Croft, but, to
the aeronaut’s surprise, the skipper made no reply. Thereupon Warner
prepared for further action, while Trigger popped into Bennet’s
double-barrelled breach-loader two more cartridges of No. 8 shot.

Taking his cue from Croft and the Anarchist, Goodall proceeded to hoist
the lee-board over the edge of the car, so as to be even with their
opponents when they renewed their attack, for it appeared as though
they intended to do so, as their duck guns had been reloaded, and Croft
had placed his leather bag, which was supposed to contain the squire’s
property, in a snug place by his side; but his companion was writhing
with pain, owing to the peppering his legs and back had received from
Trigger. Possibly he was not seriously hurt, but his vows of vengeance
on Tom Trigger and his companions, were truly horrible to listen to.
Evidently it had not been believed that the aeronauts were able to make
such a stout retaliation.

Presently the loud shriek of a fog horn was heard, as though a steamer
were approaching through the mist.

Croft, as if startled at the sound, decided upon immediate action,
believing probably in the badness of his own cause, and fearing the
approach of those who might lend assistance to the aeronauts.

“Now or never!” he said to his fierce associate, “let them have it,”
and another volley was discharged at the balloonists, but they had kept
their bodies well behind the board; and as Harry Goodall could just
discern a steam vessel looming through the fog, he at once ordered
Trigger and Warner not to return the fire, especially as someone could
be distinctly heard hailing them in English.

“Ship ahoy! What’s amiss?” asked someone. “What’s all this firing
about? Is there mutiny on board?”

“Blowed if there ain’t a balloon hitched on to the lugger,” exclaimed
another voice before Goodall could reply.

“If you will send a boat, I’ll explain matters,” said Goodall. “What
ship are you?”

“Oh, yes, I’ll have a boat manned. Hold on. I am Link, the captain.
This is the _Retriever_ from London.”

“What! my dear old friend Link, by all that’s wonderful. I’m Harry
Goodall. Well, this is a bit of luck and no mistake.”

The situation now became still more exciting, for Croft, who heard
what had been said, rushed out of ambush, bag in hand, and looked as
if he were either going to jump overboard or throw his bag into the
sea. Hereupon, Harry Goodall immediately levelled his air-gun and sent
a pellet through Croft’s left arm, which was extended with a swinging
motion, causing him at once to drop the bag. Then Goodall made a dash
for the deck of the lugger by slipping down a rope, he scarcely knew
how, being followed by Warner, while Trigger compensated for their
loss of weight by discharging gas very freely. The detective at once
confronted Croft, produced his warrant and slipped on the handcuffs,
while Goodall held a revolver menacingly; as he did so, Captain Link
and his crew, who had steamed up nearer to them, witnessed this
proceeding, and a ringing cheer was given when Harry Goodall held up
for their inspection the black bag which held the stolen cash, the
deeds and other securities.

The _Retriever’s_ life-boat had by this time brought Captain Link
alongside the lugger, and he quickly sprang on deck. The meeting there
was naturally one of great cordiality.

During their hasty consultation, the balloon had risen clear of all
surrounding obstacles to the full length of the grapnel rope, and was
swaying over towards the steamer’s stern. But the crew gradually hauled
in the rope, in accordance with Trigger’s instructions, while he opened
the top valve.

“So I have just arrived in time to give you a lift into Cherbourg, my
dear Goodall,” said Link, “but we must take this fellow Croft on board
at once. Here, Warner, you had better take off these handcuffs; the
fellow’s arms seem injured, though not fractured, I think. He can’t
escape, you know. How about this other man?” added Captain Link, who
did not like the look of the Anarchist, and thought that as he had
been warmly peppered in the legs and back by Trigger’s dust shot, he
might be left behind.

“He stay wid me,” cried the skipper. “You no punish him more.”

“I have a second warrant,” said Warner, who now had Croft in the boat.

“Oui, oui,” said the skipper, “but not for my contreeman.”

“I only wish I could meet with Croft’s master; I’ve a word or two to
say to him,” said the detective.

“Eh, vat you mean--Croft’s master? Is it Maester Fallcone you mean?”
asked the skipper.

“You shut up, skipper,” cried Croft, with a murderous expression of
face. “You have too long a tongue.”

“Hadn’t the skipper better come along with us on board the _Retriever_
and explain matters?” said Captain Link.

“Yes, I go vit you,” observed the skipper. “I no fear dat fellow,”
pointing to Croft, already in the boat, “nor his grand maitre.”

“Well, come and talk things over,” said Harry Goodall. “But how about
this Anarchist? Are you hurt, my man?”

“Sacré! Mort au bourgeoisie!” was his sole reply.

“He no run avay; pere-haps I vant him soon,” said the skipper. “He is a
good sailor, but a fool to do vit dy-nam-mite and bomb-shell.”

“I may have to run you into Cherbourg,” said Captain Link. “We must
talk it over on board.”

“See you here, monsieur capitaine,” replied the skipper, as Croft was
put below hatches on board the _Retriever_, “you vant to meet the
little man’s maister, don’t you? Den de first ting is to let me and the
luggare go.”

“I don’t quite see that,” said Harry Goodall.

“Come on board, skipper, and have a glass of Burgundy,” urged Captain
Link, diplomatically.

“Oh, certamong monsieur capitaine, aprèz vous. I vant to go avay in
my luggare, and you vant, I tink, Maître Fallcone to com to you; vary
vell. Vat is so, is it not?”

Warner, who had locked up his prisoner safely, then joined the party
in the cabin, where the skipper was gesticulating over his wine and
slapping his forehead, as if he had conceived a bright idea.

Warner’s quick brain at once realised the situation, and, taking up a
slate and pencil near him, he wrote down these words, handing them to
Mr Goodall and the captain,--

“Cut short the palaver by making him a liberal offer in cash.”

Captain Link, however, did not wholly approve of this short off-hand
way of proceeding, and said to the Frenchman,--

“If we take you into Cherbourg, skipper, we could--”

But Goodall cut in with,--

“We could there come to terms about arranging an interview with Mr
Falcon, but, since time is pressing, can’t you see your way clear to
agree at once, skipper, to accept one hundred pounds--ten on account
to-day--in consideration of fulfilling our wishes?”

“Oui, oui; I do dat dis moment for I know where Fallcone is located,
and can do--vat you call it?”

“Lead him,” suggested Goodall.

“Ah, grand, monsieur. Lead him or pilot him to exchange complements wid
you--say if you tink it vel--about tree mile from Cherbourg Harbour.”

“In your lugger, skipper?”

“No, no, in quite annudder sheep.”

“That will do capitally, skipper,” said Captain Link, “but you must let
us know the day and the hour as near as possible.”

“I do all dat, nevare fear. I vire you or write by poste. Au revoir,”
said the Frenchman, as he pocketed the ten pounds.

“Your name, I think, skipper, is Captain Ami?”

“Oui; Poste Restant, Dieppe.”

“All right,” said Harry Goodall. “Well, remember the ninety pounds
shall be forthcoming on your carrying out our bargain.”

“Vill dis veek suit you?”

“Certainly; the sooner the better. You had better address to Captain
Link, the _Retriever_, Cherbourg Harbour. Adieu!”




CHAPTER XXI

RECONCILIATION AND RETROSPECTION


Although the letter from Mr William Goodall to Squire Dove, in which
the merchant promised to visit them, proved consoling at Wedwell Hall,
still the fate of the aeronauts was the great engrossing topic that
grew in intensity hour after hour, so that reports of the vaguest
kind were eagerly caught at by the gamekeeper and Lucy, who knew how
deeply Miss Dove especially was concerned about Harry Goodall; nor
was Lucy herself much less anxious as to Trigger, so that she took
every opportunity of acquiring each scrap of information that she
could gather, both as to where the balloon had descended and whether
Croft had been arrested or any information had been obtained as to his
whereabouts.

One of the earliest, if not reliable, sources of intelligence was
generally to be met with in the person of Doctor Peters, who was an
inveterate newspaper reader, subscribing to many of the metropolitan
and local papers. Knowing this, Bennet, who was very eager for news,
determined to waylay the doctor. Meeting him on the confines of the
park with a newspaper in his hand, he at once accosted him after
touching his hat,--

“Any stirring news this morning, sir?” asked the gamekeeper.

“Yes, there’s something fresh,” replied the doctor, “though I daresay
that you and others have heard it.”

“It will be news to me at all events,” replied Bennet.

“Well, then, I’ll read you the paragraph which the _Daily Post_ gives:--

  “‘A FISHING-LUGGER’S STRANGE ADVENTURE.--A remarkable report reached
  Dieppe yesterday that the French lugger, No. 365, was attacked
  off the coast by a party of English aeronauts, who, representing
  themselves as emissaries of justice, arrested a passenger named Croft
  in the name of the law. It may be remembered that the prisoner is
  wanted, together with his confederate Falcon, on various criminal
  charges. Our report is furnished by the captain of the _Retriever_,
  who stood by and gave assistance. Further details will be at hand
  shortly!’”

“Well, to be sure!” cried Bennet, “that is news indeed.”

“I should just think it is, Bennet. Well, you can take the newspaper
and show it to them at the Hall. I sha’n’t go up myself, as the squire
is so strangely incensed against me. He seems to think I still support
those miscreants; however, he would change his mind if he would listen
to a few important details I could tell him. Just look, there goes the
postman. Follow him up, Bennet; I daresay he may bring some startling
intelligence.”

Notwithstanding the gamekeeper’s agreeable surprise at the doctor’s
change of mind, which he was at some loss to understand, he did not
waste time in speculation, but hurried up to the Hall and found that
the newspaper paragraph had been seen and discussed, and that its
effect on the squire was the reverse of agreeable, especially as a
letter from Newhaven was of a less sensational character. His informant
advised him not to pay much attention to what the reporters had written
as a great deal of fiction had been mixed up with a modicum of fact.

“There can be little doubt,” said the correspondent, “that the balloon
and a French lugger, which was believed to contain Croft, were engaged,
but there was another fugitive on board, though not Falcon, I regret
to say. It is impossible at present to say whether your property was
saved or not, though I am disposed to think that it was, after a sharp
contest, in which two of the three balloonists were slightly wounded,
although they came off the victors in the end.”

Edith Dove and Miss Chain, as well as Lucy, were naturally much
depressed by the news, but the squire, on the other hand, stoutly
maintained that there was nothing in what they had heard to cause
anxiety. In this state of affairs, the receipt of several telegrams was
joyfully welcomed.

Miss Dove’s was from Harry Goodall. It said,--

  “Have reached Cherbourg and captured C. _en route_. Hope soon to
  arrest F. before returning. Excuse more at present.”

“Well, that’s short and sweet enough!” exclaimed the squire. “Edith, no
doubt Harry does not think it safe to say more, fearing that the French
authorities might detain him.”

“Or worse, papa, he may be badly wounded and too ill to write, and, out
of consideration for my feelings, tries to disguise the fact.”

“Not he, Edith. How could he continue the chase for Falcon if he--”

“Well, well, let’s hope for the best. Now, dear Miss Chain, let us hear
yours.”

“Mine is from Captain Link, dear. There, read it yourself.”

  “Just witnessed spirited, glorious engagement between the balloon
  party and a French lugger. Have caught Croft. On the track of the
  other. Returning shortly.”

“Hurray! God bless them!” exclaimed the squire. “But who’s that
snivelling?”

“Lucy in the next room, papa.”

“Come in here, Lucy,” cried the squire. “What’s amiss with you?”

“Please, sir, my telegram says that Trigger’s wounded.”

“Nonsense, girl, let me read it.”

  “Croft taken with the swag. Am wounded but nothing serious.”

“There’s nothing to cry about in that, Lucy, my good girl. I daresay
his wound is a mere scratch.”

“And no doubt, squire,” said Miss Chain, who was much reassured since
the receipt of her telegram, “that they had good reasons for being
brief and cautious, as they have taken their prisoners and prize into
Cherbourg.”

“Quite so, Miss Chain,” cried the squire. “I daresay they have, and, of
course, they have to be cautious that they don’t give themselves away
in the matter. The fact is, they have engaged in a deucedly delicate
matter.”

“Oh, please, sir, do you think Tom will come back on crutches?” asked
Lucy.

“More likely, girl, with flying colours and lots of prize money,” said
the squire, laughingly.

The ladies then took a stroll in the park, taking much comfort in each
other’s society. But they were again considerably upset by noticing
on their return, that the squire was rather agitated. Directly he saw
his daughter, he asked her, excitedly, if Lucy could take a letter
of importance to Newhaven as Bennet could not be spared? He added
that Doctor Peters was ill and wished to see him in order to make a
communication that permitted no delay.

“Very well, papa, if you really must send Lucy; and pray see the poor
old doctor at once. I wonder what he has to say?”

We must now turn to Hawksworth and his actions. He had heard just
enough, both at Haywards Heath and elsewhere, about the fugitive
financier and his supposed whereabouts to induce him to have another
attempt to capture Falcon, as the detective had been told that he was
evading the police, and that Warner had been on a wild-goose chase
after him, and had failed. So Hawksworth set out for the south coast
with the idea of redeeming his waning reputation, and he resolved that
he would leave no stone unturned to effect his capture, especially
as he held warrants for the arrest of the financier and for Croft,
respecting some Australian doings and other charges relating to crimes
on the high seas.

Hawksworth left London with his usual jaunty air of confidence, which
was one of his weak points, and another was his susceptibility to
the charms of the fair sex. It was in endeavouring to make himself
agreeable to Miss Chain, and to ingratiate himself with that young
lady, that he made that fatal mistake at the Crystal Palace, in
fancying that Captain Link was Filcher Falcon, merely because he
personally resembled him to some extent. However, had he known the
particulars of Warner’s pursuit of the fugitives, he would probably
have felt less confident in his mission, which subsequent events--but
we must not anticipate.




CHAPTER XXII

TIGHTENING THE NET


On the squire’s making up his mind to visit Doctor Peters, he elected
to do so privately from the park by way of the lane. On his arrival,
he found his medical adviser reclining on an old-fashioned couch and
looking a most dejected object.

“I am truly sorry to see you down again with gout,” said the squire.
“Don’t move, Peters; you must shake off this attack as soon as you can,
for I am not feeling at all well myself,” said he, selfishly. “This
robbery has greatly upset me. Of course you heard of it?”

“I did, squire, and wish to speak to you of a loss I have myself had.”

“I hope that you have not also fallen a victim to those rascals,
doctor?”

“I have, though, and it occurred on the same night that we were all in
the park, soon after Falcon and Croft entered your library, when, so
far as I can make out by Maria’s evidence, the scoundrels finished up
here. At last, squire, I have been convinced that my girl’s statement
was only too true.”

“What led to the discovery, Peters?”

“The fact of not having been able to find the key of my skeleton case,
though I searched high and low.”

“The same in which Falcon hid himself when Warner paid you a visit?”

“Yes, the identical one, and, worse luck, my cash box was inside.
I never gave it a thought when I put the rascal there. Well, the
villain’s sharp eyes must have ‘spotted’ it, for it has disappeared.
What a plausible devil the fellow is to be sure--so fair spoken, and,
egad! even liberal at times. I don’t wonder that he entertained some
ideas about aerial flight.”

“You must excuse my laughing, doctor.”

“You may well do so, squire, though to me it is no laughing matter, I
can assure you, for I had drawn out of the bank some years’ savings to
entrust him with, as you had done with your capital, but I hung fire in
letting him have mine for a while; in fact, I had only handed it over a
day before the balloonists arrived.”

“What made you do so, Peters?”

“Why, your own great faith in him before the real and unexpected aerial
visitors came.”

“But afterwards you believed in him, doctor?”

“I defended Falcon in his absence, but, while doing so, I never
supposed that he had robbed you and me too. But, alas, when I could not
find the key of my skeleton case, I broke it open and found that I had
been plundered, and, without doubt, by those rascals after they had
shot at Mr Goodall and entered your library.”

“Well, believe me, you have my sincerest sympathy; but loss it shall
never be to you if I can help it. And though we were opposed for a time
in our views about this rascal, we are at length of one mind as to
making haste to discover Falcon’s hiding-place. I am told that you have
given notice yourself to the police of his treachery, so that you are
entirely exonerated from the slightest suspicion of collusion in any
way with him.”

“Beyond that silly telegram I sent to Sydenham, when I vainly fancied
that it would bring him back to you, squire.”

“You clearly mistook your man, doctor, and so did I, and if you had
heard all that the aeronauts said in disfavour of Falcon, you would not
have been so--”

“Pig-headed--that’s the word, squire. I can see it now, but feel that
it is never too late to mend.”

“God bless you, Peters, and speedily restore you; but rouse yourself,
old friend, for who knows but what your property and mine may not yet
be brought back to us through the brave exertions of Harry Goodall and
his friends.”

“I trust they will, and now allow me, squire, to thank you sincerely
for this visit; it has eased my mind and will make me better able to
bear this attack of gout, if not to cure it.”

“One word at parting, doctor, I have not long heard that Falcon has
been seen on board a boulder boat, and a later addition is that he
was taken up afterwards by a smack with a view of working round to
Folkestone or Boulogne. Lucy has gone off to Newhaven with a letter,
and to gather further intelligence.”

“Well, well, I hope he will be caught before long, squire. Good-bye,
good-bye.”

Meanwhile, Lucy had reached Lewes in a light trap. Directly she
alighted, she made her way to the platform from which the Newhaven
train started, and, while descending the steps, she was asked by a
gentlemanly-looking person, evidently in a great state of excitement,
“If he was in time for the tidal train?”

“Oh, yes, plenty, sir, and to spare,” said Lucy. “It won’t leave for
twenty minutes, though I don’t really know if it is the boat train.”

“I am so glad,” said the gentleman, “for I am rather in a dilemma.”

“You are not the only traveller in that state, sir,” replied Lucy.

“No, I expect not. The fact is, I want to be in Newhaven as soon as I
can, and I wanted, before doing so, to visit a park near here where a
balloon descended some short time since.”

“Do you mean Wedwell Park, sir?”

“Yes, that’s it. How far is it from here?”

“Some distance, sir; you would have to take a conveyance.”

“Then I will go on to Newhaven, but, if I am not taking too great a
liberty, might I ask if there is any definite news of a man named
Falcon?”

“Oh, yes, sir, I can give you the latest information.”

“You can!” repeated her interrogator, with pleasurable astonishment
expressed in every feature in his face. “What a bit of luck my meeting
you!”

“Perhaps you are a detective?” said Lucy.

“Well, yes, I am. I will be fair and frank with you. My name is
Hawksworth.”

“But, sir, possibly my latest information may be of little use to you.”

“Let me judge of that; the smallest clue sometimes leads to a capture.”

“Well, sir, I have been told that Mr Falcon has been seen on board a
boulder boat, and that he was then transferred to a smack bound for
Folkestone or Boulogne.”

“Really, your information is of the greatest importance, but you are
not ‘kidding’ me, I hope? But no! you look too straightforward to do
that. You won’t be offended if I ask your name and address, I hope?”

“Oh, dear, sir, I come from Wedwell Park, and my name is Lucy.”

“It is a pleasure to have made your acquaintance,” replied Hawksworth,
gallantly. “Here! I say guard, what time does the train for Hastings
go?”

“In about ten minutes, sir.”

“Then I must say good-bye,” said Hawksworth, taking off his hat. “I
hope to meet you soon again.”

“Willingly, sir.”

When Lucy had ensconced herself in a railway carriage for Newhaven,
she was glad to be alone, for her face was flushed, and she began
to have misgivings as to whether she had done the correct thing to
tell a stranger what she had heard. At the same time, if the man
was a detective--and she had heard Warner speak of such a name as
Hawksworth--she had done the right thing at the right time, for she
was eager that Falcon should be in custody. Just as Lucy was consoling
herself with these thoughts, the guard’s whistle was blown and the
train began to move. At the same moment, two men rushed into the
carriage at some risk, though they apologised to Lucy, as the sole
occupant, for causing her the least alarm. Seeing that the younger
limped a little, she replied politely that she was not frightened at
all, and trusted he had not hurt himself in getting in; but he assured
her his lameness was not due to any such cause, but to a wound he had
got when at sea. The stouter man seemed displeased at his companion’s
effusiveness and checked him with a frown, while he addressed some
observations to him in indifferent English, but Lucy understood him to
say,--

“Nevare moind, mate, ve no fight on board de new ship _Panthere_, vhich
is no luggare, I can tell you dat.”

The last spokesman looked like a seafaring man, who might be a captain.
Presently his companion drew nearer to Lucy, but not offensively, and
asked her if she had not been speaking to a gentleman at Lewes.

“I had seen the gentleman for the first time,” said Lucy.

“He go to Hastings, I tink,” said the skipper-looking person.

Lucy at once became very uncommunicative, but the younger man hazarded
the remark that he thought the gentleman was in their train.

“Oh, vel, ve vil carry good news now on board,” said the stouter
mariner, who took a good pull at his cognac flask and handed the bottle
to his mate, who finished what was left.

At the Newhaven town station, these passengers got out, but Lucy went
on to the further station, as she had to see the harbour-master,
but she noticed that when the men got out, they seemed to speak to
a middle-aged female and an elderly old lady, who seemed rather
bewildered, and Lucy concluded that they were all going on board the
_Panther_, which the sailors had alluded to. Lucy had a good stare at
the old lady, as she was so uncommonly like Miss Chain’s mother, but
she could not settle that doubtful point by speaking to her, as the
train began to move on, so that the girl came to the conclusion that
she had been mistaken.

At the harbour-master’s office, Lucy delivered her letter and stated
that the squire and Miss Dove were very anxious as to the safety of the
aerial voyagers. She was informed that they had not left Cherbourg,
as some hitch had delayed them for a day or two. At the same time,
said the harbour master, they might return unexpectedly. Lucy was then
asked if the Doves were acquainted with a French captain, who was in
the habit of visiting Newhaven, and who was supposed to be known to Mr
Falcon. Lucy replied that she did not think so.

“I can tell you positively,” said the harbour master, “that the
balloonists are safe, but I cannot tell you more at present beyond
this, that Falcon is still baffling us all. There was a rumour, as I
told the squire, that he had gone to Folkestone or Boulogne, but I now
believe that he is secreted somewhere near here. Do you think that the
squire or his daughter could come over in case of necessity?”

“I daresay, sir, that Miss Dove and her friend, Miss Chain, might be
able to see you, but the squire is not very well, having been much
upset by the robbery.”

“In that case you had better not repeat all I have told you, but rather
leave my letter to speak for itself. And you will do well to hasten
back.”

As Lucy was leaving the office she caught sight, for the second time
that day, of a face which seemed familiar to her. But recognition was
made difficult by reason of the individual wearing a blue blouse, like
a working man from Normandy. However, he apparently had no doubts, for
he sprang towards Lucy and held out his hand.

“Don’t you know me, Lucy?” said the foreign-looking man.

“Why, as I live, it is Simon Warner. Well, I am glad to see you, and
how are Tom and Mr Goodall? Are they with you?”

“No; I am only over for an hour on most important business. Trigger is
all right now, and so is Mr Goodall, but I have not long to stay here,
for I am going back to Cherbourg by the next boat.”

“And how are Tom’s wounds? And hasn’t your face been injured, Mr
Warner?” asked Lucy.

“Oh, never mind that; and as to Tom, he’s getting on all right.”

At this moment, Warner was summoned into the presence of the
station-master, but before he left, he begged Lucy to give his duty to
the squire and Miss Edith, while he confided a special message to the
cook.

Lucy’s trip had been not an altogether uneventful one. She was
particularly mystified by Warner’s being at Newhaven in disguise, yet
she presumed there was more going on than was dreamt of in her humble
philosophy.




CHAPTER XXIII

DECOYED


The latest news delivered by Lucy to Squire Dove, though designed to
allay his distress of mind, was futile as to its effect, but Edith and
Miss Chain were rejoiced to hear that the doctor and the squire were
now reconciled. A missive of much stranger nature, however, arrived the
next morning, and purported to emanate from the harbour-master’s office
at Newhaven.

  “Will Squire Dove kindly send his carriage over at one o’clock
  to-morrow to meet the Company’s agent at the new bridge, when Miss
  Dove and her companion will be in time to meet their friends from
  Cherbourg. No reply is expected, but the arrival of the ladies at
  the time specified, will be relied upon, when they will be met and
  conducted on board a steamer. In haste, to save the post.”

The squire was himself anxious to go, but his daughter prevailed upon
him not to do so, owing to his health.

On the ladies arriving at the new bridge, they were met by a
fashionably-dressed gentleman whom they supposed was the Company’s
agent. He escorted the ladies with much politeness on board a
fine-looking vessel lying close to the wharf, but higher up than the
place where the steamers generally start from. They were then invited
to the saloon, where luncheon was ready prepared for them. Then
excusing himself on the ground that he had business to transact with
their new captain and mate, he left them to their luncheon, stating
that he would return as soon as he possibly could.

The steward was very attentive as he waited at table, and chatted with
the ladies in an affable though perfectly respectful manner.

“Yes, ladies, we shall be slowly moving down the river to meet the
vessel which, I understand, has your party of friends on board.”

“But we are surely passing out of the harbour,” remarked Miss Chain, in
accents of astonishment.

“Just so, ladies,” said the steward; “the vessel has to be turned, and
we may run out a short way to be able to swing her safely.”

“Isn’t that most unusual?” exclaimed Miss Dove.

“Not with a vessel of this class,” explained the steward.

“Oh, dear,” cried Miss Chain, “but we are passing into rough water.”

“There is a slight swell, ladies. It is caused by the tide. She will be
steadier directly. Perhaps you would prefer to lie down?”

“Oh, no, no, we would sooner go on deck,” cried Edith Dove, not clearly
understanding their position.

“If you ladies just keep quiet for one minute,” said the steward, “I
will step up and ask the captain how far they are going to run out to
meet the Dieppe boat before turning.”

“But isn’t this a passenger boat?” asked Miss Chain.

“Well, no, not exactly,” said the steward, with a smile which he seemed
trying to suppress.

Then a strange thing happened, for a groan and a kind of hysterical
scream were heard, and seemed to issue from a cabin not far away, as
though some lady passenger was ill on board. And at the same moment a
stewardess came into the saloon and tried to persuade Miss Dove and
Miss Chain to lie down, and invited them to take some decoction, which
she extolled as a certain specific against sea-sickness.

“Thank you, nothing of that sort. I really don’t understand where we
are going, or what they are doing with the ship.”

“I am a stranger myself to the ship,” said the stewardess; “in fact,
most of us are.”

“Do pray explain yourself more clearly, it will be better for you.
There is, we think,” cried Miss Dove, in a state of alarm, “some
mistake or mystery about our being here.”

Then another groan was heard.

“Poor, dear lady, she is bad; I must go to her,” said the stewardess,
as she left the saloon.

Then Edith Dove and Miss Chain made a rush for the deck to ascertain
what was going on, but the steward, however, who was descending the
companion ladder, begged the ladies to keep below for a short while,
stating that the captain was himself coming down. Shortly afterwards he
appeared, accompanied by the mate. Both seemed to be Frenchmen, and the
mate the only one who could speak English intelligibly.

“We are running out a longer distance than we thought of doing before
we turn, as we wish to sight the Dieppe steamer before doing so.”

This statement did not at all satisfy the ladies, particularly as the
man had a repulsive appearance, whilst he limped as though he was not
quite sober. However, he soon moved off in search of more drink. Then
the captain, touching his hat most respectfully, handed a folded paper,
on which was written in English,--“I am Captain Ami, and if you have
faith in me no harm will befall you.” Then, saluting the ladies, he
left them without another word.

But this announcement was so strange and unaccountable that Edith
Dove and Miss Chain, though to some extent relieved, were still in an
alarming state of fright lest this Captain Ami might be an agent, not
of the Harbour Company, but of the man they most dreaded, namely Falcon.

“Couldn’t we further test this man and insist on going on deck?” said
Miss Chain.

“Certainly, dear, we will go.”

And no hindrance was made to their doing this. When they stood on deck,
they looked round them, and discovered that they were already some
distance from the shore. Scanning the people on board, they were at
once attracted by the presence of a slouching figure, who kept entirely
in the fore part of the vessel, while the captain and the mate chatted
together near the wheel.

“Edith, dear, I can’t take my eyes off that horrid-looking man in the
fore part of the vessel, who seems trying to avoid our inspection.
Although he looks as dark as a mulatto, I believe it is none other than
that arch-fiend Falcon.”

“Oh, Miss Chain, if that is so, we are undone, and you may depend that
we have been kidnapped. That letter must have been a forgery, and not
from the harbour-master’s agent at all.”

“Well, these men will not surely dare to offer us any insult. Perhaps
they are holding us to ransom, trying to make terms so as to escape
prosecution for the robbery of the securities. One thing is certain, we
must not show the slightest sign of fear.”

“This vessel,” said Miss Dove, “is evidently a hired yacht.”

“And going,” added Miss Chain, “goodness knows where. Ah! there is that
cry again from that poor woman! By the way, who can she be? Is she also
in their power? Do you know, dear, that her voice seems oddly familiar
to me. If it were not quite impossible, I would say it was my mother’s.”

“I told you, dear,” said Miss Dove, “that we had more trouble before
us. What will my poor, dear father do, when we fail to return?”

“I am sure that God will help us, Miss Dove. Oh, listen to that poor
sea-sick creature below.”

“Couldn’t you slip down in the saloon and speak to the stewardess about
her, my dear Miss Chain?”

“We ought not to separate,” said her companion. “By the way, how are we
off for money?”

“I have very little,” said Miss Dove.

“Suppose we try and get down in the saloon, then. I don’t suppose they
will keep us below, or exercise restraint if we do not seem to be aware
that we are entrapped.”

“Perhaps not; let us venture, Miss Chain.”

When they descended, they found that the stewardess was fully expecting
their arrival, and had been in and out of the ladies’ cabin preparing
for them, for there was a lumpy sea on and a nasty look outside the
south coast in the direction they were going. They had not been down
below many minutes before the groans of the poor sufferer were again
heard. Then Miss Chain came close to Miss Dove and whispered to her,--

“Make some excuse to get the stewardess on deck with you; say that
you want her arm to steady you as you can’t stop below. Say anything
you like, but get the woman out of the way, for I intend to solve
the mystery of those distressful cries myself, and learn the poor
creature’s story.”

It was some little time before Miss Dove could carry out this
stratagem, but at length she succeeded. They had no sooner disappeared,
than Miss Chain approached the cabin where the sick woman lay. She had
been locked in, but the key had been carelessly left in the door. No
words can express Miss Chain’s horror and astonishment on beholding her
dear mother, who, putting her finger to her lips, begged her to speak
low.

“I have been trying for some time to draw your attention, dear,” said
Mrs Chain, “as I heard you in the saloon, and thank God for this chance
of telling you that I am sure we are kidnapped, no doubt by that wretch
Falcon, who would not hesitate to carry us out to sea and even take
our lives. Be quick, dear, and take this leather bag, for it contains
money which you may want. It is part of the proceeds of the fifty-pound
cheque Miss Dove most kindly sent me a while ago, when she heard the
story of our losses through Falcon. My idea is that you should bribe
the stewardess, and also terrify her by informing her that Miss Dove is
the daughter of the squire, who is a magistrate.”

“My dear mother, how providential is this meeting, and how singularly
opportune is Miss Dove’s present to you at a time when it may assist us
and her too. But how came you here, mother?”

“I was told in a letter that I was to meet you and Miss Dove on board a
yacht. But when I got on board yesterday, I discovered that I had been
entrapped. Then, in my hearing, Falcon told the stewardess that if I
attempted to communicate with anyone who might come on board I should
be put down in the fore hold. Fearing that he would carry out his
threat, I had recourse to pretending to be desperately sea-sick, so as
to give him the impression that I was too ill to notice anything around
me.”

“But have they hired this yacht for a cruise, or for what purpose?”

“Oh, I don’t know, dear child; but from what the mate told me after I
was entrapped yesterday, they are going over to Havre first of all to
meet a friend who had preceded them.”

“I dare not stay longer now, dear mother, as the stewardess will be
coming down. But keep up heart, for I have some idea that we may have a
friend on board after all. Hush! I can’t say more, someone is coming.”

It was quite excusable of Miss Chain after such an exciting episode to
throw herself on a lounge, and she thought it might allay suspicion if
she affected indisposition.

When Miss Dove entered the cabin, she was looking very pale and
anxious, but Miss Chain made her a sign not to address her at present.
Thinking the ladies were both ill, the stewardess again strongly
recommended her marine cordial, as she called it.

“You need not be suspicious of it. I will prepare it in your presence,
ladies. It will do neither of us any harm, I assure you, and I will
drink some of it myself first, if you like.”

“You must not suppose that we mistrust you, stewardess,” said Miss
Chain, who had aroused herself. “We are intending to make you a liberal
present if you are kind and true to us, and it may pay you better to
study our comfort and safety, than to oblige others on board of this
ship. Perhaps you don’t know that this young lady is a magistrate’s
daughter, and that, when she is found to be missing, this vessel will
be pursued, and all confederates in these criminal proceedings of
kidnapping will be brought to justice.”

“Oh, lor’, miss, I’m no confederate, but only a hired servant. There,
come into this other cabin, where we shall not be overheard.”

“Certainly,” said Miss Chain, “if you will not mind if we have a few
words there alone first.”

“By all means, ladies. That cabin is entirely at your disposal. No one
will interrupt you there, and in the meantime, I will see after my
other charge. But I hope you won’t think badly of _me_,” went on the
garrulous woman, “for I’m not mixed up with these parties as have hired
the yacht. I was told it was simply an elopement, and that I should be
well paid for my services.”

“But can’t you see,” said Miss Chain, “that it is a vile kidnapping
affair?”

“Oh, good Lord! And me a respectable Sussex woman. What a fool I
was not to have made inquiries before I ventured on board the old
_Panther_.”

“Is that her name?” asked Miss Dove.

“Yes, miss, but please to have your private talk at once, so that I can
see you before the bad weather comes on. I’m told the glass is falling
very fast, and that they are preparing for a rough night of it.”

It did not take Miss Chain very long to reveal the discovery she had
made to Edith Dove, who was much shocked to find that Miss Chain’s
mother was imprisoned on board in a separate cabin. She was much
affected when her companion offered to return to her the bag of gold
and notes, part of the cheque her kindness of heart had prompted her
to send to Mrs Chain.

“You said, dear, it would be turned to a good and useful account. How
wonderful are the ways of Providence. This proof of it inspires me
with hope, but you must be cashier. Now tell me, Miss Chain, don’t you
think it would be good policy to give the stewardess, say, five pounds,
_i.e._, unless you see some other way of turning this godsend to better
account, as your tact and judgment are superior to mine. And do, if we
can manage it, let me see your mother, for we may meet for the first
and last time, if this bloodthirsty monster is bent on our destruction.”

“We must work together to prevent such an awful catastrophe as you
and my poor mother picture, Miss Dove. But, dear me, how rough it is
getting.”

The stewardess, on reappearing, said she was not sorry that a storm
was brewing, as Mr Filcher, the party who had engaged the yacht, would
remain probably on deck longer than he might have done if it had been
calm, as he expected it to be.

“But you know him, ladies, I have no doubt. Please to lie down, for
I hear him on the companion; he is coming down to have a drink, and
perhaps to see where you are. If he thinks you are sleeping, it will be
better for all of us.”

After Falcon, with an unsteady gait, had partaken of a glass of brandy
and water, he spoke in a subdued voice to the steward, and said that
it was not fit weather for ladies to be on deck, and he was not over
well pleased with the skipper’s seamanship, so that he would like to be
near him, as it looked very stormy outside.

“Very well, sir. Please to mind our companion steps, Mr Filcher, as
they are awfully steep. You will excuse me calling your attention to
it, as I knew a man on board the _Neptune_, a full-rigged ship in which
I once sailed, who, I was given to understand, was pitched down the
companion in a gale of wind and broke his neck.”

“There was an end of him, then,” cried Falcon, with a sneer. “He can
tell no tales. However, you can finish about him next call, for I don’t
feel very well in this atmosphere.”

“Too close for you, sir, perhaps.”

“Almost too hot down here.”

“I don’t feel it so myself, sir.”

“Don’t suppose you do. Why, it blows stiffer than ever.”

Having had recourse several times to her “marine cordial,” the
stewardess found no difficulty in getting off to sleep; indeed, her
stertorous breathing in the adjoining cabin soon assured Miss Chain
and Miss Dove that they might venture to visit Mrs Chain in her cabin
unobserved once more; but for a time the dread of falling down, and
the bare idea of the stewardess being awake, kept them from active
exertion. Still, if that frightful snore they were assailed by was real
and no sham, they could both creep along the carpeted floor and say
a word or two to the poor old lady. And this they did, and were much
encouraged by each other’s society. One thing they determined upon,
and that was not to venture on deck, believing that Falcon entertained
designs on their lives. They argued that he could easily pitch them
overboard during the darkness of the night and the fury of the gale and
no one be wiser, their disappearance being easily accounted for on the
supposition that they had been washed overboard.

Another hour at least passed, when nought was heard save the noise of
the storm and the snores of the stewardess. They listened with constant
dread lest anyone should approach their cabin. Indeed, they began to
indulge in the hope that they might safely get some sleep, when they
were aroused by a tremendous noise as of something falling heavily. The
steward, bewildered, rushed from his berth and called for help. Several
sailors, with the captain, descended to find their employer nearly
unconscious. Evidently he had disregarded the steward’s advice of
being careful, and had pitched down the companion in his half-muddled
condition. Falcon was lifted up and placed on a lounge.

“Is there no doctor on board?” asked Miss Dove, imploringly.

“No, miss,” replied the steward.

“Would a restorative be of any use?” asked Miss Chain.

“No, no, he too much cognac had,” said the captain, who was feeling
Falcon’s pulse; and after doing so for some time, he said, “I tink he
not live long. Ve must take him somevere; he no speak.”

“Couldn’t that old lady be moved,” asked Miss Chain.

“Sans doubt,” said the captain.

“Very well, then,” said the stewardess, “I’ll put the old lady into the
large cabin with these ladies, _i.e._, if they don’t object.”

“Why, certainly not, we should be glad to have her company.”

The question then arose as to what they were going to do. Captain Ami
said,--

“Ve must go ahead stead-dy till daylight come--den pere-haps ve see
some ship or get doctere from Cherbourg if he live. Aftere dat ve go
back to Eengland.”

Naturally it was with unspeakable delight that the ladies heard the
captain say, “Ve must go back to Eengland.” Then they recollected his
own words to them, which were, “To have faith in him.” Yet the thought
would obtrude itself on their minds that Falcon’s fall down the ladder
might not have been quite such an accident as they had at first judged
it to be.




CHAPTER XXIV

A DISAPPEARANCE AND A REAPPEARANCE


Directly Edith and Miss Chain were on board the _Panther_, the Doves’
carriage put up at the Bridge Hotel in Newhaven, in compliance with
an order from the mate of the yacht _Panther_, who further instructed
the coachman where to wait with the carriage after the horses had been
baited.

When two full hours had elapsed, the coachman felt so anxious about
his ladies that he returned to the wharf to look after them, and was,
of course, astonished to notice that the vessel had vanished, but,
observing a wharfinger, he asked if he knew where the steamer had gone.

“Gone,” he said, with a knowing twinkle in his eye, “very likely to
Normandy; it’s a runaway match, isn’t it?”

“What are you talking about?” replied the coachman, whose temper was
rising. “Don’t poke fun at me, or you’ll find yourself in the wrong
box.”

“Well, if that isn’t an elopement or a case of kidnapping, I’m much
deceived. The fact is, that blooming _Panther_ was thought to be a
bit suspicious like, and if I were you, I’d just look up the harbour
master,” said Blucher Gray.

“Why, man,” cried the coachman, “you’re all at sea; my ladies came
expressly to see some gentleman coming from Cherbourg or Dieppe.”

“Do you mean the parties who went up in a balloon? Lor’ bless you,
I know ’em well, and helped to start them from Bishopstone when a
detective joined ’em. But don’t you know, coachman,” said Blucher Gray,
for it was none other than he, “that there’s no boat due yet?”

“My good man,” replied the coachman, “you will drive me mad if you say
much more.”

“Well, it’s my opinion that you have been hoaxed, and I believe I’ve
been served out myself. You see that man coming in a fly, he’s Dick
Trimmons. I’ll speak to him; we shall hear something more perhaps. Hi!
Trimmons,” cried Blucher Gray; “hold on a minute with your trap, and
tell us what you know about that queer craft the _Panther_, and where
she has gone to.”

“Didn’t know she was gone,” said Dick Trimmons. “I brought over this
morning your lodger, that black devil of a man with his big black
spectacles, from Seaford.”

“And where is he now, Dick, eh? I suppose you know the coachman here?
He has lost his ladies; they come from Wedwell Park.”

“Lost his ladies! You don’t mean that?”

“I do, indeed,” cried the Doves’ coachman. “The fact is, I’m mighty
anxious about them.”

“Hold on,” cried Blucher Gray, “here comes the harbour master and one
or two others; they have heard something’s up, I’ll lay a wager.”

“Beg your pardon, sir, but didn’t you ask my ladies to come over and
meet the balloon gentlemen on their way back from Cherbourg, sir?” said
the coachman, addressing the harbour master.

“No, indeed, coachman,” replied he, quite astounded. “But why do you
ask?”

“Well, sir, because Miss Dove and her friend went on board the steam
yacht _Panther_, thinking, I believe, to meet you and their friends.”

“Then I’m afraid there’s been foul play. However, I will immediately
wire across and send out a tug, though I fear it is too late to stop
them. By the way, Trimmons, who was that queer-looking man you have
been driving over from Seaford lately? He’s stone blind, they say.”

“My wife’s lodger, sir,” answered Gray.

“But where has he gone now?”

“That’s exactly the very point we’re discussing,” said Trimmons.

“I can see it all,” cried the harbour master; “we’re all completely
done. The fellow was that rascal Falcon in disguise, and he has carried
off Miss Dove and her friend, God knows where. Well, it’s no use your
stopping here, coachman, you had better make the best of your way home
to Wedwell Park. I wish I could go with you to break the matter to the
squire. However, I’ll send my confidential clerk.”

“This scoundrel Falcon owes my wife for his lodgings,” remarked Gray,
as the three walked towards the stables.

“And me,” cried Trimmons, “for a lot of journeys to and from Seaford,
which he has not paid yet. I thought he was a millionaire, and had lost
his sight by pulling in so much cash.”

“By golly,” said Blucher Gray, “it looks as if he could see far enough.
It’s us who were blind. I was never taken in so in all my life. Hullo!
here comes Mr Strive, who, like us, saw the balloonists off from
Bishopstone. How are you, Mr Strive? There’s bad news stirring, I
regret to say, but we will tell you about it at the hotel.”

“Nothing happened to the aeronauts, I hope?” asked the ex-chief officer.

“No, they’re all right, but Squire Dove’s daughter and her companion
are carried off by that swindler Falcon, in the _Panther_ steam yacht,
as we believe, and the wretch has made off owing money right and left,
too.”

“You don’t say so?” cried Mr Strive.

“What has happened?” asked the squire, as the carriage entered Wedwell
Park, for the grave faces of the coachman and of the harbour-master’s
clerk, at once suggested some mishap, while the absence of the ladies
added to his anxiety.

“Let me introduce myself,” replied the occupant of the carriage. “I am
the harbour-master’s representative, and wish to state that a steam
yacht went out unexpectedly at high water, and we fear that Miss Dove
and her companion must have been, by some strange mistake, on board her
at the time. We have sent out a tug, and wired to the French coast, as
the _Panther_ people with your ladies, squire, may have gone out to
meet the Dieppe passenger boat.”

“What in the name of fortune,” cried the squire, “had my daughter to do
with a steam yacht? And do have the goodness to tell me whether your
people invited the ladies over to Newhaven Bridge at twelve o’clock?”

“Yes, these,” remarked Doctor Peters, who had joined the squire, “are
most important questions.”

“I really don’t know,” replied the puzzled clerk.

“Is it possible,” exclaimed the squire, “that this monster has
outwitted us all, and robbed us besides? I can see now the meaning of
Warner’s telegram to Edith, which arrived two hours after the carriage
left. Here, read it, doctor, for I am feeling faint.”

“Yes, squire, I’ll do so while you rest. It says,--‘I warn the ladies
and the squire not to go near Newhaven.’”

“What a pity that telegram came so late,” exclaimed the squire, so
feebly that it was evident he was seriously ill.

In another minute he would have fallen down in a fainting fit, if
Doctor Peters’s quick eye had not noticed the change, and, running to
the squire’s assistance, he placed him on a lounge, while the requisite
remedies were forthwith administered under Doctor Peters’s personal
superintendence. It was fortunate that he was sufficiently well to
diagnose and treat the attack, but he immediately called in from Lewes
medical help, because, after a partial revival, the heart’s action of
the squire continued very weak.

Mr Penfold and many other friends who had ascertained the actual
position of affairs had afforded the squire all the consolation that
they possibly could in his distress, when a letter arrived from Mr
William Goodall, to say that he was coming next day with some good
news. This had quite a magic effect on the squire, as he construed the
letter to imply that Goodall had seen, or heard some cheering tidings
of Miss Dove and Miss Chain. So Doctor Peters and the rest of the
household kept up this delusive idea.

However, the hope and faith this belief inspired in the mind of the
squire was excusably encouraged, and to foster it, preparations were
set on foot to give a warm reception to Mr William Goodall, including
an impromptu day of rejoicing. Bennet was therefore told to provide
what amount of sport and diversion he could. The village band and one
from Lewes were ordered, and tents were erected in preparation.

On the following morning, when the squire, who was nearly himself
again, and his friends had been amusing themselves in the punts on
the fish-pond, a shriek was heard, coming from the direction of the
gamekeeper’s cottage, and Mrs Bennet was seen standing outside,
looking as pale as death, while she pointed towards a quiet,
gentlemanly-looking man, who was approaching the Hall. Squire Dove,
whose eyes were steadfastly fixed on this figure, exclaimed,--

“If I were a believer in ghosts, doctor, I should say that, for the
first time in my life, I had seen one.”

“Ay, how extremely like Henry Goodall who was drowned that stranger is!”

While the squire and Doctor Peters were agreed on this point, Mrs
Bennet drew near to explain that the gentleman who had so alarmed her,
and who looked the very image of William Goodall’s brother who died at
sea, frightened her by suddenly alighting from a carriage in the lower
road, and said that his brother William, the other occupant of the
carriage, was going round to the Hall, but that he had come in by the
cottage gate so as not to frighten the squire until his brother William
had gone in advance to announce that he, Henry, was not drowned as had
been reported. It was this unexpected news from a supposed defunct man
that had made Mrs Bennet scream.

“Don’t be alarmed!” said the squire, “there comes William Goodall
from his carriage, and now the two brothers are standing shoulder to
shoulder as if they were debating what they should do. This is a very
remarkable incident,” added the squire, “for yonder we get another
proof of how we have been swindled by Falcon.”

“I wouldn’t allude to his name, squire, unless the Goodalls do so
first. See, they are coming down to meet us,” cried the doctor. “Let us
pause a moment and meet them half way, squire.”




CHAPTER XXV

REUNION AND HAPPINESS


As the squire and Doctor Peters drew nearer, Henry Goodall advanced
with extended hand towards them. Seeing this, his brother and the
doctor held back for a moment, to notice what effect the unexpected
appearance of Henry Goodall would have on their host, and then the
party all shook hands heartily.

“Welcome back in the flesh,” said the squire. “Welcome to Wedwell Park.
You bring us tidings of my daughter and her companion as well as of the
aeronauts. No? I had hoped you might have met them, for you must know
that they are missing. My daughter will sadly regret not being here to
receive you.”

“That I am sure of,” replied Henry Goodall. “And your kind words are
doubly gratifying after the adventures I have had, but that is too long
a story to tell you now, especially if you are concerned as to the
safety of your child.”

“Yes, excuse me,” cried the squire. “I’m perhaps too anxious to know
all, and forget my dear old friend. How bewildered you must feel on
this occasion. But do let us move towards the tents on the lawn and sit
down.”

At this moment Lucy was seen approaching with a telegram.

“Excuse my reading it,” said the squire, politely, to his guests;
“perhaps it is about the aeronauts. Yes, I was right. It is from
Newhaven, and says,--‘Your daughter, Miss Chain and the aeronauts all
on their way to Wedwell Park.’ Ay, thank God for that,” cried the
squire. “Here, Lucy, give this to Bennet, and let everyone know the
good news. You will soon see your son, Mr Goodall, and I shall once
more behold my daughter!”

This short but touching announcement was somewhat enigmatical, so far
as the brothers Goodall were concerned, so the squire hurriedly gave
them an account of the startling events which had been happening during
the last few days.

The news of the return of the aeronauts had evidently rapidly
circulated, for considerable excitement was apparent among the
household servants and the tenantry.

“Hark!” exclaimed the doctor, “don’t you hear the band playing ‘The
Conquering Hero comes?’”

“Who is the hero?” asked the Sydney merchant.

“Why, your son, Harry Goodall, of course,” replied the squire, “though
no doubt your own heroic deeds equally deserve this ovation.”

“Nonsense, squire, you flatter me too greatly.”

The meeting which took place in front of the Hall can be better
imagined than described, for when Edith Dove and the squire embraced,
as did Goodall, senior, with his son Harry, there arose such cheering
that the village bells could scarcely be heard pealing, nor the Babel
of congratulations which filled the air, so glad were folk to welcome
them all back to Wedwell Park. Presently a move was made to the tents,
where a cold collation had been provided. After the viands had been
done justice to, and numerous toasts had been drunk, everyone seemed
as anxious to give information of their various adventures as the rest
were desirous of hearing them.

Henry Goodall was the first called on to narrate the episodes of his
voyage, during which he was supposed to have been drowned.

“Really, Squire Dove,” said the Sydney merchant, “I am so rejoiced to
see you once more, together with your daughter and my son, that as I
wish to hear about their more thrilling adventures, I will make short
work of my own miraculous escape from a watery grave. So I will briefly
mention that, instead of being washed over the side of the _Neptune_ by
a heavy sea off the Cape of Good Hope, as my brother and even Captain
Link believed, I was, in point of fact, cast overboard by Falcon and
Croft, who were passengers in the ship, and who expected to get hold of
my will, which I had made greatly in favour of Falcon. And I may tell
you that these wretches were foiled in rather a curious way, for the
steward of the ship, who was an ingenious man, had invented and made a
cork cap and belt, which he kindly supplied me with, as I was a great
deal on deck owing to an asthmatic affection, but had no idea, though
the steward had, that my life would be attempted while on board of my
own vessel by a man I had befriended. However, I had been warned by the
steward not to place much confidence in those two men, so that I had
taken my will and some bank-notes and placed them inside the steward’s
waterproof life-belt, which I wore then, when I was carried, or, in
fact, hurled overboard at night on our shipping a very heavy sea, I
was providentially not drowned. Floating, unseen by those on deck, I
drifted in the direction of a vessel, and, being taken on board, was
able to reach Cape Town. Here I was immensely astonished to find the
steward in hospital, and he told me that, instead of being washed down
the companion ladder by the same wave that carried me over the ship’s
side, he was deliberately wounded by blows struck by Falcon and Croft.
Little did they think that he would recover after they had gone on to
London in the _Neptune_, and that I should soon tread on their heels
and bring back with me a witness against them in the person of the
steward himself. I had also left a second legacy to Falcon--believing
him at that time to be a true friend--provided he induced my son Harry
to relinquish ballooning and to seek the hand of a young lady who at
the present moment shall be nameless, though she is not at this moment
a hundred miles away.”

After these incidents had been more fully discussed, Harry Goodall
and the ladies respectively related the astonishing devices to which
Falcon and Croft had for so long past employed against them all, as are
already known to us.

Captain Ami seems to have fully carried out his contract made with
Harry Goodall and Captain Link on board the _Retriever_, and at the
same time was the means of bringing Miss Dove and her companion under
the protective escort of their respective lovers.

Before the party broke up, the squire announced, amidst general
congratulations, that, ere many weeks would be over their heads, two
weddings would be solemnised in the village church of Wedwell, namely
that of Mr Harry Goodall with Miss Dove, and of Captain Link with
Miss Chain, and with full consent of the parties’ respective parents.
And he added that he believed that it was an open secret that wedding
bells would ring in congratulations of others known to them, whose
loyalty and bravery entitled them to win hearts true as their own. All
reference to the fates, sad, though richly deserved, of Falcon and
Croft was carefully avoided, so that no discordant note might tend to
mar the harmony of the gathering.

However, the reader may be interested to know that Falcon’s fall
resulted in incurable paralysis, while Croft took his own life by
deliberately jumping overboard during a gale of wind, and previous to
the _Retriever_ falling in with the _Panther_; though the ship was
brought to, and the most careful search was made, no trace of him was
discovered, so there can be little doubt as to his fate.


THE END


  London: DIGBY, LONG & CO., Publishers,
  18 Bouverie Street, Fleet Street, E.C.




                                                          _OCTOBER 1895_

_SUPPLEMENTARY LIST_

DIGBY, LONG & CO.’S

NEW NOVELS, STORIES, Etc.


GRANT ALLEN’S NEW BOOK.

  =The Desire of the Eyes= and other Stories. By GRANT ALLEN, Author of
    “The Woman Who Did,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._
                                                            [_Just out._


_IN ONE VOLUME_, Price 6s.

NEW NOVEL BY FERGUS HUME.

  =The Masquerade Mystery.= By the Author of “The Mystery of a Hansom
    Cab,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._                      [_Just out._

NEW NOVEL BY ANNIE THOMAS (MRS PENDER CUDLIP).

  =A Lover of the Day.= By the Author of “False Pretences,” etc. Crown
    8vo, cloth, 6_s._                                        [_Shortly._

NEW NOVEL BY JEAN MIDDLEMASS.

  =Hush Money.= By the Author of “The Mystery of Clement Dunraven,”
    etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._                             [_Shortly._

NEW NOVEL BY DORA RUSSELL.

  =A Man’s Privilege.= By the Author of “A Hidden Chain,” “The Other
    Bond,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth.                        [_In November._

DR ARABELLA KENEALY’S LATEST NOVEL.

  =The Honourable Mrs Spoor.= By the Author of “Some Men are such
    Gentlemen,” “Dr Janet of Harley Street,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth,
    6_s._                                             [_Fourth Edition._

    “Her latest novel has advanced her to the front rank of lady
    novelists.”--_BLACK AND WHITE._

    “A clever story. The most powerful piece of work that Miss Kenealy
    has done.”--_DAILY CHRONICLE._

    “This powerful story ... brilliantly achieved. Her style is, as
    always, graceful and easy, and her character sketches are excellent
    and humorous.”--_PALL MALL GAZETTE._

BY DR ARABELLA KENEALY.

  =Some Men are such Gentlemen.= By the Author of “Dr Janet of Harley
    Street,” “Molly and Her Man-o’-War,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._
    With a Frontispiece.                               [_Fifth Edition._

    “We take up a book by Miss Arabella Kenealy confidently expecting
    to be amused and in her latest work we are not disappointed. The
    story is so brightly written that our interest is never allowed to
    flag. The heroine, Lois Clinton, is sweet and womanly.... The tale
    is told with spirit and vivacity, and shows no little skill in its
    descriptive passages.”--_ACADEMY._

    “A book to be read breathlessly from beginning to end. It is
    decidedly original ... its vivid interest. The picture of the girl
    is admirably drawn. The style is bright and easy.”--_PALL MALL
    GAZETTE._

    “Its heroine is at once original and charming.”--_TRUTH._

  =When the Heart is Young.= By ALICE MAUD MEADOWS. Author of “The
    Romance of a Mad-house,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._
                                                      [_Fourth Edition._

    “A brightly-written, gossipy novel of real interest and attraction.
    The story is one for which we would predict a very large measure
    of popularity. In recent fiction the novel will assuredly take a
    prominent place.”--_DUNDEE ADVERTISER._

NEW NOVEL BY GILBERTA M. F. LYON.

  =One Hour of Madness.= By the Author of “Absent, Yet Present,” etc.
    Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._                                 [_Just out._

  =Recognition.= A Mystery of the Coming Colony. By SYDNEY H. WRIGHT.
    Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._                           [_Second Edition._

    “One of the literary sensations of the season. The first edition was
    entirely bought up by the trade on the day of publication. The book
    is one of absorbing interest, and has scarcely a dull page from
    start to finish.”--_ABERDEEN JOURNAL._

  =Sir Geoffrey de Skeffington.= A Historical Novel. By B. W. WARD,
    M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._                         [_In November._

  =The Vengeance of Medea.= By EDITH GRAY WHEELWRIGHT, Author of
    “Anthony Graeme.” Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._

    “Miss Wheelwright has introduced several delightful characters, and
    produced a work which will add to her reputation. The dialogue is
    especially well written.”--_WESTERN DAILY MERCURY._

  =With the Bankshire Hounds.= A Hunting Story. By F. H. Crown 8vo,
    cloth, 6_s._                                            [_Just out._

  =What we are Coming to.= A Powerful Up-to-Date Novel. By HENRY
    MAURICE HARDINGE. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._         [_Second Edition._

  =A Ruler of Ind.= By F. THOROLD DICKSON and MARY L. PECHELL. Crown
    8vo, cloth, 6_s._                                       [_Just out._

  =The Court Adjourns.= By W. F. ALEXANDER. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._
                                                         [_In November._

  =Castle Lacy.= By Mrs MARY A. HOUCHEN. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._
                                                            [_Just out._

  =And the World Saith.= An Original and Powerful Novel by LEDA LAW.
    Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._                              [_In November._

  =Ronald Kyan.= By WALTER SWEETMAN, B.A., Author of “Libertas,”
    “Schoolfellows’ Stories,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._
                                                         [_In November._


_IN ONE VOLUME_, Price =3s. 6d.=

“_A Book everybody is reading._”

  =His Egyptian Wife.= By HILTON HILL. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._
    With Frontispiece.                              [_Seventh Thousand._

  “It is her (Nelly Shy’s) determination at all costs to see the inside
  of a harem that produces the most racy and adventurous chapters in a
  thoroughly readable volume.”--_DAILY TELEGRAPH._

  “An American journalist of the softer sex is depicted with
  considerable skill and a fund of genuine humour.”--_LITERARY WORLD._

  “There is no one but will fall in love with the indomitable Nelly
  Shy, of the Chicago ‘Ladies’ Journal.’”--_ABERDEEN PRESS._

  “This is one of the brightest written romances we have read this
  season.”--_SHEFFIELD INDEPENDENT._

NEW BOOK BY THE AUTHOR OF “A PLUNGE INTO SPACE.”

  =The Crack of Doom.= By ROBERT CROMIE, Author of “For England’s
    Sake,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._          [_Third Edition._

  Mr GLADSTONE writes:--“I am reading the book with interest.”

    “It has a capital plot, which is admirably developed. The author
    has not only struck a vein of fiction rich and rare, but he has
    demonstrated his ability to work it.”--_BLACK AND WHITE._

  =Her Loving Slave.= By HUME NISBET, Author of “The Jolly Roger,”
    “Bail Up,” etc., etc. In Handsome Pictorial Binding, with
    Illustrations by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._; also in
    Digby’s Popular Novel Series, cloth, 2_s._ 6_d._   [_Third Edition._

    “Has abundance of go in it.”--_THE TIMES._

    “It is a good story well told.”--_STANDARD._

    “The whole story is capitally written, the characters are life-like,
    and the whole is in Mr Nisbet’s best style.”--_ST JAMES’S BUDGET._

  =A Knight of the Air.= By HENRY COXWELL. Author of “My Life and
    Balloon Experiences,” etc. Crown 8vo, pictorial cloth, with
    Frontispiece, 3_s._ 6_d._                               [_Just out._

  =Indolent Impressions.= By FREDERICK WILLIAM WAITHMAN. Crown 8vo,
    cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._                                      [_Just out._

    “One of the most entertaining books of the season. Should find
    thousands of appreciative readers.”--_IRISH TIMES._

  =The Leadin’ Road to Donegal.= By “MAC.” Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._
                                                            [_Just out._

  =The Weird Ring of Aviemoor.= By MARCUS ORDE. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._
    6_d._                                                   [_Just out._

  =Timothy’s Legacy.= By EMILY M. H. CLENNELL. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._
    6_d._                                                   [_Just out._

  =My Doubles=, and other Stories. By J. TEMPEST BLANCH, Author of “Our
    Hands Have Met,” etc. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._
                                                      [_Second Edition._

  =Over-Reached.= By MATTHEW VALLANCE. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._
                                                            [_Just out._

  =A Son of Noah.= By MARY ANDERSON. Author of “Othello’s Occupation.”
  Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._                        [_Fifth Edition._

  =Spunyarn.= By N. J. PRESTON. Crown 8vo, pictorial cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._
                                                      [_Second Edition._

    “Very readable stories of the sea.”--_DUNDEE ADVERTISER._

    “It has the genuine flavour of the tarry hand.”--_SCOTSMAN._

    “The book is thoroughly enjoyable.”--_WHITEHALL REVIEW._

  =Perfect Womanhood.= By FREDERICK J. GANT, F.R.C.S. (Dedicated by
    permission to H.R.H. PRINCESS CHRISTIAN.) Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._
    6_d._                                                   [_Just out._




DIGBY’S POPULAR NOVEL SERIES

  Crown 8vo, price 2_s._ 6_d._ per Vol. Each book contains about 320
  pp., and is printed on superior paper, from new type, and bound in
  handsome cloth, gilt lettered.

_Those marked * may be had in picture boards at 2s._

By FLORENCE MARRYAT
THE BEAUTIFUL SOUL.                  [_Ready._

BY DORA RUSSELL.
THE OTHER BOND.                      [_Ready._
* A HIDDEN CHAIN. (THIRD EDITION.)

By L. T. MEADE.
A LIFE FOR A LOVE.                   [_Ready._

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Cudlip).
FALSE PRETENCES.                     [_Ready._

By ARABELLA KENEALY
* DR JANET OF HARLEY STREET. (SEVENTH EDITION.)

By JEAN MIDDLEMASS.
* THE MYSTERY OF CLEMENT DUNRAVEN. (THIRD EDITION.)

By HUME NISBET.
* THE JOLLY ROGER. Illustrated by Author. (FIFTH EDITION.)
HER LOVING SLAVE.
  Illustrated by Author.             [_Ready._

  Other Works in the same Series in due course.


MISCELLANEOUS

  =A History of the Great Western Railway from Its Inception to the
    Present Time.= By G. A. SEKON. Revised by F. G. SAUNDERS, Chairman
    of the Great Western Railway. Demy 8vo, 390 pages, cloth, 7_s._
    6_d._ With numerous Illustrations.

    _Illustrated Prospectus, post free._ [_Second Edition._

    “Mr Sekon’s volume is full of interest, and constitutes an important
    chapter in the history of railway development in England.”--_THE
    TIMES_, April 12th, 1895.

  =The Author’s Manual.= By PERCY RUSSELL. With Prefatory Remarks by
    Mr GLADSTONE. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._ net. (EIGHTH AND CHEAPER
    EDITION.) With portrait.

    “... Mr Russell’s book is a very complete manual and guide for
    journalist and author. It is not a merely practical work--it is
    literary and appreciative of literature in its best sense: ... we
    have little else but praise for the volume.”--_WESTMINSTER REVIEW._

  =A Guide to British and American Novels.= From the Earliest Period to
    the end of 1894. By PERCY RUSSELL, Author of “The Author’s Manual,”
    etc. Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 3_s._ 6_d._ net. (SECOND EDITION
    CAREFULLY REVISED.)

    “Mr Russell’s familiarity with every form of novel is amazing, and
    his summaries of plots and comments thereon are as brief and lucid
    as they are various.”--_SPECTATOR._

  =Nigh on Sixty Years at Sea.= By ROBERT WOOLWARD (“Old Woolward”).
    Crown 8vo, cloth, 6_s._ With Portrait. (SECOND EDITION.)

    “Very entertaining reading. Captain Woolward writes sensibly and
    straightforwardly, and tells his story with the frankness of an old
    salt. He has a keen sense of humour, and his stories are endless and
    very entertaining.”--_THE TIMES._

  =Borodin and Liszt.= I.--Life and Works of a Russian Composer.
    II.--Liszt, as sketched in the Letters of Borodin. By ALFRED HABETS.
    Translated with a Preface by ROSA NEWMARCH. With Portraits and
    Fac-similes. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5_s._

    “Well translated. It consists of two sections, the first a very
    interesting and sympathetic memoir of the exceedingly original
    Russian genius, and the second a vivid sketch of Liszt as he
    appeared to Borodin. The translator’s preface sums up the
    conditions of musical life in Russia very cleverly.”--_THE TIMES._


POETRY AND THE DRAMA

  =Fragments from Victor Hugo’s Legends and Lyrics.= By CECILIA
    ELIZABETH MEETKERKE. Crown 8vo, cloth, 7_s._ 6_d._

    “The most admirable rendering of French poetry into English that has
    come to our knowledge since Father Prout’s translation of ‘La Chant
    du Cosaque.’”--_WORLD._

  =Our Queen and other Poems.= By LILLIAN. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._
    6_d._ net.                                              [_Just out._

  =The Palace of Delights and other Poems.= By HENRY OSBORNE, M.A.
    Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._ net.                      [_Just out._

  =Random Rhymes and Christmas Chimes.= By LILY OVERINGTON. Crown 8vo,
    cloth, 5_s._ net.                                       [_Just out._

  =Songs of My Solitude.= By HENRY NEWMAN. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._
                                                            [_Just out._

  =The Progress of Love.= Crown 8vo, cloth 2_s._ 6_d._      [_Just out._

  =The Lilies and other Poems.= By SABRINA. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._
    6_d._                                                   [_Just out._

  =Chateaux en Espagne.= By PERCY CROSS STANDING. Crown 8vo, cloth,
    3_s._ 6_d._                                             [_Just out._

  =Flower Legends from Many Lands.= By LIZZIE DEAS. Crown 8vo, cloth,
    1_s._ 6_d._                                             [_Just out._

  =The Janitor’s Daughter.= A Drama of Bristol Castle. By GEORGE AMOS.
   Crown 8vo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._ net.                       [_Just out._

  =Life’s Golden Age; or, Juvenile Congress.= By WILLIAM CULLINGWORTH.
    Crown 8vo, cloth, 2_s._ 6_d._                           [_Just out._

  =Sir Kenneth’s Wanderings.= By FREDERICK E. ELLIS. Crown 8vo, cloth,
    2_s._ 6_d._ net.                                        [_Just out._

  =Fugitive Fancies.= By WILLIAM JOSEPH YEOMAN. Author of “King William
    III.” Demy 16mo, cloth, 3_s._ 6_d._ net.               [_Now Ready._

  =Pixy: A Fairy Drama in Four Acts.= By ISAAC WILLCOCKS, M.R.C.S.
    Crown 8vo, paper cover, 1_s._                           [_Just out._


  _A complete Catalogue of Novels, Travels, Biographies, Poems, etc.,
  with a critical or descriptive notice of each, free by post on
  application._


  London: DIGBY, LONG & CO. Publishers
  _18 Bouverie Street, Fleet Street, E.C._




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized or underlined text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Emboldened text is surrounded by equals signs: =bold=.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A KNIGHT OF THE AIR ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

A direct knowledge of Buddhism was obtained with the translations of D.T. Suzuki, the inter-religious conferences the activity of the Pali Text Society. Buddhist missions were established for Asiatic immigrants in the US. But a central contribution was provided by few courageous pioneers that after WW2 obtained a direct training by masters into Buddhist monasteries in Asia, later bringing their own teachings back to their countries of origin. The practice of Buddhism was thus established in the West, based on its basic moral and communitary principles and values. It is noteworthy that the practice of meditation, which was limited to the ordained monks residing into Asiatic monasteries, has become a central part of the practice by Western Buddhists, and in the developments of mindfulness. 

